docs/content/community.mdx, before:

---
title: Community
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /community
description: Learn how to engage with the OpenFGA Community
---
# OpenFGA Community

## Slack (CNCF Community)
The OpenFGA community has a channel in the [CNCF](https://cncf.io) Slack.

If you don't have access to the CNCF Slack you can request an invitation [here](https://slack.cncf.io). You can join the community in the [#openfga](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C06G1NNH47N) channel.

## GitHub Discussions
You can also use [GitHub discussions](https://github.com/orgs/openfga/discussions) to ask questions and submit product ideas.

## X (formerly Twitter)
Follow us on X to get the latest updates on all things OpenFGA. [@OpenFGA](https://twitter.com/OpenFGA).

## YouTube
Subscribe to [the OpenFGA YouTube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/@OpenFGA) to see our latest videos and recordings.

## Mastodon
For the Fediverse fans among you, follow us on Mastodon at [@openfga@mastodon.social](https://mastodon.social/@openfga)!

## Monthly Community Meetings
We hold a monthly community meeting on the second Thursday of every month @ [11am Eastern Time (US)](https://www.worldtimebuddy.com/?qm=1&lid=12,100,5,6,8&h=5&sln=11-12&hf=1).

* [Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Y6rbD0xpGLVl-7CmeMgxi56_a0ibIQ_RojvWBbT9MZk/edit#)
* [Zoom Link](https://okta.zoom.us/j/92836372678?pwd=aTE0M3JNK0tDQWxHOWdvNnlmWCtYZz09)
* [Recordings of Previous Meetings](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLUR5l-oTFZqUneyHz-h4WzaJssgxBXdxB)
* [Web Link](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=daf2d94b4d60979d468faf274e98d098b03bc08adfaf25d8c27ff0ad8d344f2a%40group.calendar.google.com) | [ics file](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/38a445a2801a268987d9e566b2b8f60d90bb615c4a9678c7c2c992020a166bf2%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics)

Read more details [here](https://github.com/openfga/community/blob/main/community-meetings.md)

Commit message:

fix (add social account): Update community.mdx (#912)

docs/content/community.mdx, after:

---
title: Community
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /community
description: Learn how to engage with the OpenFGA Community
---
# OpenFGA Community

## Slack (CNCF Community)
The OpenFGA community has a channel in the [CNCF](https://cncf.io) Slack.

If you don't have access to the CNCF Slack you can request an invitation [here](https://slack.cncf.io). You can join the community in the [#openfga](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C06G1NNH47N) channel.

## GitHub Discussions
You can also use [GitHub discussions](https://github.com/orgs/openfga/discussions) to ask questions and submit product ideas.

## X (formerly Twitter)
Follow us on X to get the latest updates on all things OpenFGA. [@OpenFGA](https://twitter.com/OpenFGA).

## YouTube
Subscribe to [the OpenFGA YouTube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/@OpenFGA) to see our latest videos and recordings.

## LinkedIn
Follow us on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/openfga/) for the latest updates, community highlights, and insights into fine-grained authorization.

## Mastodon
For the Fediverse fans among you, follow us on Mastodon at [@openfga@mastodon.social](https://mastodon.social/@openfga)!

## Monthly Community Meetings
We hold a monthly community meeting on the second Thursday of every month @ [11am Eastern Time (US)](https://www.worldtimebuddy.com/?qm=1&lid=12,100,5,6,8&h=5&sln=11-12&hf=1).

* [Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Y6rbD0xpGLVl-7CmeMgxi56_a0ibIQ_RojvWBbT9MZk/edit#)
* [Zoom Link](https://okta.zoom.us/j/92836372678?pwd=aTE0M3JNK0tDQWxHOWdvNnlmWCtYZz09)
* [Recordings of Previous Meetings](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLUR5l-oTFZqUneyHz-h4WzaJssgxBXdxB)
* [Web Link](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=daf2d94b4d60979d468faf274e98d098b03bc08adfaf25d8c27ff0ad8d344f2a%40group.calendar.google.com) | [ics file](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/38a445a2801a268987d9e566b2b8f60d90bb615c4a9678c7c2c992020a166bf2%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics)

Read more details [here](https://github.com/openfga/community/blob/main/community-meetings.md)
