docs/content/modeling/migrating/migrating-relations.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /modeling/migrating/migrating-relations
---

import {
  AuthzModelSnippetViewer,
  CardBox,
  CheckRequestViewer,
  DocumentationNotice,
  ProductConcept,
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  ReadRequestViewer,
  RelatedSection,
  RelationshipTuplesViewer,
  WriteRequestViewer,
} from '@components/Docs';

# Migrating Relations

<DocumentationNotice />

In the lifecycle of software development, you will need to make updates or changes to the <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-authorization-model" linkName="authorization model" />. In this guide, you will learn best practices for changing your existing authorization model. With these recommendations, you will minimize downtime and ensure your relationship models stay up to date.

## Before You Start

This guide assumes you are familiar with the following OpenFGA concepts:

- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="Type" />: a class of objects that have similar characteristics
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="User" />: an entity in the system that can be related to an object
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relation" linkName="Relation" />: is a string defined in the type definition of an authorization model that defines the possibility of a relationship between an object of the same type as the type definition and a user in the system
- An <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="Object" />: represents an entity in the system. Users' relationships to it can be define through relationship tuples and the authorization model
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="Relationship Tuple" />: a grouping consisting of a user, a relation and an object stored in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm} />
- [Intersection Operator](../../configuration-language.mdx#the-intersection-operator): the intersection operator can be used to indicate a relationship exists if the user is in all the sets of users

## Step By Step

The document below is an example of a relational authorization model. In this model, you can assign users to the `editor` relation. The `editor` relation has write privileges that regular users do not.

In this scenario, you will migrate the following model:

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          editor: {
            this: {},
          },
          can_edit: {
            computedUserset: {
              object: '',
              relation: 'editor',
            },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

There are existing <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="relationship tuples" /> associated with editor relation.

<RelationshipTuplesViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: 'user:anne',
      relation: 'editor',
      object: 'document:roadmap',
    },
    {
      user: 'user:charles',
      relation: 'editor',
      object: 'document:roadmap',
    },
  ]}
/>

This is the authorization model that you will want to migrate to:

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          writer: {
            this: {},
          },
          can_write: {
            computedUserset: {
              object: '',
              relation: 'writer',
            },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

<hr />

### 01. Create A Backwards Compatible Model

To avoid service disruption, you will create a backwards compatible model. The backwards compatible model ensures the existing relationship tuple will still work.

In the example below, `user:Anne` still has write privileges to the `document:roadmap` resource.

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          editor: {
            this: {},
          },
          writer: {
            union: {
              child: [
                {
                  this: {},
                },
                {
                  computedUserset: {
                    relation: 'editor',
                  },
                },
              ],
            },
          },
          can_write: {
            computedUserset: {
              object: '',
              relation: 'writer',
            },
          },
          can_edit: {
            computedUserset: {
              object: '',
              relation: 'writer',
            },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

Test the `can_edit` definition. It should produce a value of `true`.

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:anne'} relation={'can_write'} object={'document:roadmap'} allowed={true} />
<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:anne'} relation={'can_edit'} object={'document:roadmap'} allowed={true} />

### 02. Create a New Relationship Tuple

Now that you have a backwards compatible model, you can create new relationship tuples with a new relation.

In this example, you will add Bethany to the `writer` relationship.

<WriteRequestViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      _description: 'Bethany assigned writer instead of editor',
      user: 'user:bethany',
      relation: 'writer',
      object: 'document:roadmap',
    },
  ]}
/>

Run a check in the API for Bethany to ensure correct access.

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:bethany'} relation={'can_write'} object={'document:roadmap'} allowed={true} />

### 03. Migrate The Existing Relationship Tuples

Next, migrate the existing relationship tuples. The new relation makes this definition obsolete.

Use the `read` API to lookup all relationship tuples with the `editor` name in your model.

<ReadRequestViewer
  relation={'editor'}
  object={'document:'}
  tuples={[
    {
      user: 'user:anne',
      relation: 'editor',
      object: 'document:planning',
    },
    {
      user: 'user:charles',
      relation: 'editor',
      object: 'document:planning',
    },
  ]}
/>

Update the new tuples with the `write` relationship.

<WriteRequestViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: 'user:anne',
      relation: 'writer',
      object: 'document:roadmap',
    },
    {
      user: 'user:charles',
      relation: 'writer',
      object: 'document:roadmap',
    },
  ]}
/>

Finally, remove the old relationship tuples.

<WriteRequestViewer
  deleteRelationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: 'user:anne',
      relation: 'editor',
      object: 'document:roadmap',
    },
    {
      user: 'user:charles',
      relation: 'editor',
      object: 'document:roadmap',
    },
  ]}
/>

:::info
Perform a `write` operation before a `delete` operation to ensure Anne still has access.
:::

Confirm the tuples are correct by running a check on the user.

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:anne'} relation={'can_write'} object={'document:roadmap'} allowed={true} />

The old relationship tuple no longer exists.

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:anne'} relation={'editor'} object={'document:roadmap'} allowed={false} />

### 04. Remove Obsolete Relationship From The Model

After you remove the previous relationship tuples, update your authorization model to remove the obsolete relation.

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          writer: {
            this: {},
          },
          can_write: {
            computedUserset: {
              object: '',
              relation: 'writer',
            },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

Now, the `write` API will only accept the new relation name.

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Review the following sections for more information on managing relationship tuples."
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: 'Transactional Writes',
      description: 'Learn how to perform transactional write',
      link: '../../interacting/transactional-writes',
      id: '../../interacting/transactional-writes.mdx',
    },
    {
      title: 'Relationship Queries',
      description: 'Understand the differences between check, read, expand and list objects.',
      link: '../../interacting/relationship-queries',
      id: '../../interacting/relationship-queries.mdx',
    },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

chore: move production environment into its own page (#314)
* chore: move production environment into its own page

Close https://github.com/openfga/openfga.dev/issues/312

docs/content/modeling/migrating/migrating-relations.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /modeling/migrating/migrating-relations
---

import {
  AuthzModelSnippetViewer,
  CardBox,
  CheckRequestViewer,
  DocumentationNotice,
  ProductConcept,
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  ReadRequestViewer,
  RelatedSection,
  RelationshipTuplesViewer,
  WriteRequestViewer,
} from '@components/Docs';

# Migrating Relations

<DocumentationNotice />

In the lifecycle of software development, you will need to make updates or changes to the <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-authorization-model" linkName="authorization model" />. In this guide, you will learn best practices for changing your existing authorization model. With these recommendations, you will minimize downtime and ensure your relationship models stay up to date.

## Before You Start

This guide assumes you are familiar with the following OpenFGA concepts:

- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="Type" />: a class of objects that have similar characteristics
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="User" />: an entity in the system that can be related to an object
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relation" linkName="Relation" />: is a string defined in the type definition of an authorization model that defines the possibility of a relationship between an object of the same type as the type definition and a user in the system
- An <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="Object" />: represents an entity in the system. Users' relationships to it can be define through relationship tuples and the authorization model
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="Relationship Tuple" />: a grouping consisting of a user, a relation and an object stored in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm} />
- [Intersection Operator](../../configuration-language.mdx#the-intersection-operator): the intersection operator can be used to indicate a relationship exists if the user is in all the sets of users

## Step By Step

The document below is an example of a relational authorization model. In this model, you can assign users to the `editor` relation. The `editor` relation has write privileges that regular users do not.

In this scenario, you will migrate the following model:

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          editor: {
            this: {},
          },
          can_edit: {
            computedUserset: {
              object: '',
              relation: 'editor',
            },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

There are existing <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="relationship tuples" /> associated with editor relation.

<RelationshipTuplesViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: 'user:anne',
      relation: 'editor',
      object: 'document:roadmap',
    },
    {
      user: 'user:charles',
      relation: 'editor',
      object: 'document:roadmap',
    },
  ]}
/>

This is the authorization model that you will want to migrate to:

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          writer: {
            this: {},
          },
          can_write: {
            computedUserset: {
              object: '',
              relation: 'writer',
            },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

<hr />

### 01. Create A Backwards Compatible Model

To avoid service disruption, you will create a backwards compatible model. The backwards compatible model ensures the existing relationship tuple will still work.

In the example below, `user:Anne` still has write privileges to the `document:roadmap` resource.

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          editor: {
            this: {},
          },
          writer: {
            union: {
              child: [
                {
                  this: {},
                },
                {
                  computedUserset: {
                    relation: 'editor',
                  },
                },
              ],
            },
          },
          can_write: {
            computedUserset: {
              object: '',
              relation: 'writer',
            },
          },
          can_edit: {
            computedUserset: {
              object: '',
              relation: 'writer',
            },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

Test the `can_edit` definition. It should produce a value of `true`.

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:anne'} relation={'can_write'} object={'document:roadmap'} allowed={true} />
<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:anne'} relation={'can_edit'} object={'document:roadmap'} allowed={true} />

### 02. Create a New Relationship Tuple

Now that you have a backwards compatible model, you can create new relationship tuples with a new relation.

In this example, you will add Bethany to the `writer` relationship.

<WriteRequestViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      _description: 'Bethany assigned writer instead of editor',
      user: 'user:bethany',
      relation: 'writer',
      object: 'document:roadmap',
    },
  ]}
/>

Run a check in the API for Bethany to ensure correct access.

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:bethany'} relation={'can_write'} object={'document:roadmap'} allowed={true} />

### 03. Migrate The Existing Relationship Tuples

Next, migrate the existing relationship tuples. The new relation makes this definition obsolete.

Use the `read` API to lookup all relationship tuples with the `editor` name in your model.

<ReadRequestViewer
  relation={'editor'}
  object={'document:'}
  tuples={[
    {
      user: 'user:anne',
      relation: 'editor',
      object: 'document:planning',
    },
    {
      user: 'user:charles',
      relation: 'editor',
      object: 'document:planning',
    },
  ]}
/>

Update the new tuples with the `write` relationship.

<WriteRequestViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: 'user:anne',
      relation: 'writer',
      object: 'document:roadmap',
    },
    {
      user: 'user:charles',
      relation: 'writer',
      object: 'document:roadmap',
    },
  ]}
/>

Finally, remove the old relationship tuples.

<WriteRequestViewer
  deleteRelationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: 'user:anne',
      relation: 'editor',
      object: 'document:roadmap',
    },
    {
      user: 'user:charles',
      relation: 'editor',
      object: 'document:roadmap',
    },
  ]}
/>

:::info
Perform a `write` operation before a `delete` operation to ensure Anne still has access.
:::

Confirm the tuples are correct by running a check on the user.

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:anne'} relation={'can_write'} object={'document:roadmap'} allowed={true} />

The old relationship tuple no longer exists.

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:anne'} relation={'editor'} object={'document:roadmap'} allowed={false} />

### 04. Remove Obsolete Relationship From The Model

After you remove the previous relationship tuples, update your authorization model to remove the obsolete relation.

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          writer: {
            this: {},
          },
          can_write: {
            computedUserset: {
              object: '',
              relation: 'writer',
            },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

Now, the `write` API will only accept the new relation name.

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Review the following sections for more information on managing relationship tuples."
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: 'Transactional Writes',
      description: 'Learn how to perform transactional write',
      link: '../../interacting/transactional-writes',
      id: '../../interacting/transactional-writes.mdx',
    },
    {
      title: 'Relationship Queries',
      description: 'Understand the differences between check, read, expand and list objects.',
      link: '../../interacting/relationship-queries',
      id: '../../interacting/relationship-queries.mdx',
    },
    {
      title: 'Production Best Practices',
      description: 'Learn the best practices of running OpenFGA in a production environment',
      link: '../../getting-started/running-in-production',
      id: '../../getting-started/running-in-production',
    },
  ]}
/>
