docs/content/modeling/migrating/migrating-schema-1-1.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /modeling/migrating/migrating-schema-1-1
---

import {
  AuthzModelSnippetViewer,
  CardBox,
  CheckRequestViewer,
  DocumentationNotice,
  ProductConcept,
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  ReadRequestViewer,
  RelatedSection,
  RelationshipTuplesViewer,
  WriteRequestViewer,
} from '@components/Docs';

# Migrating Models To Schema 1.1

<DocumentationNotice />

<ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm} /> has introduced a new DSL schema version with several changes that we
believe will make models easier to read and write, enable better tuple and model validations, and provide more options for
optimizing the performance of different <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm} /> APIs.<br/><br/>

In short, we will be:

1. [Adding model schema version field](#-model-schema-versions)
2. [Adding type restrictions and removing need to specify `as self`](#type-restrictions--removing-as-self)
3. [Disallowing string literals in user_ids](#disallowing-string-literals-in-user_ids)
4. [Enforcing type restrictions](#enforcing-type-restrictions)
5. [Requiring you to specify for which relations you can write tuples with public access](#public-access)
6. [Changes in query evaluation behavior with type restrictions](#query-evaluation-behavior-with-type-restrictions)

To facilitate migration to the new DSL schema, you will need to update tuples that are no longer valid. In particular, all tuples whose `user` field involves a wildcard character (`*` or `user:*`) defined with model schema 1.0 <u><strong>MUST</strong></u> be deleted and re-added back.

## <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> Model Schema Versions

Since the changes in the DSL are significant, we have decided to add a schema version to the DSL. The previous version of the DSL’s schema was `1.0`, and the new schema version will be `1.1`. To use the new syntax please add the following to the top of the model:

```
model
  schema 1.1
```

:::info

<ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm} /> will eventually stop supporting schema version 1.0. Notifications will
be posted in GitHub, Discord and Twitter before this change occurs.

:::

## Type Restrictions & Removing `as self`

We’ll use the following version 1.0 model and tuples to illustrate the changes we’ll need to make:

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    type_definitions: [
      { type: 'user', relations: {} },
      { type: 'group', relations: { member: { this: {} } } },
      {
        type: 'folder',
        relations: {
          parent: { this: {} },
          viewer: {
            union: {
              child: [
                { this: {} },
                {
                  tupleToUserset: {
                    tupleset: { object: '', relation: 'parent' },
                    computedUserset: { object: '', relation: 'viewer' },
                  },
                },
              ],
            },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          parent: { this: {} },
          viewer: { this: {} },
          can_read: {
            union: {
              child: [
                { computedUserset: { object: '', relation: 'viewer' } },
                {
                  tupleToUserset: {
                    tupleset: { object: '', relation: 'parent' },
                    computedUserset: { object: '', relation: 'viewer' },
                  },
                },
              ],
            },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
    schema_version: '1.0',
  }}
/>

<RelationshipTuplesViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: 'user:bob',
      relation: 'member',
      object: 'group:sales',
      _description: 'Bob is a member of the Sales group',
    },
    {
      user: 'folder:sales',
      relation: 'parent',
      object: 'document:pricing',
      _description: 'The "pricing" document is in "sales" folder',
    },
    {
      user: 'group:sales#member',
      relation: 'viewer',
      object: 'folder:sales',
      _description: 'Members of the "sales" team can view the "sales" folder',
    },
    {
      user: 'user:john',
      relation: 'viewer',
      object: 'document:pricing',
      _description: 'John can view the "pricing" document',
    },
  ]}
/>

Those tuples match the intent of how the model was designed, but without type restrictions we can also write tuples that would not. For example, we can say that a document is a member of the sales group:

<RelationshipTuplesViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: 'document:pricing',
      relation: 'member',
      object: 'group:sales',
      _description: 'The "pricing" document is a member of the "sales" group',
    },
  ]}
/>

To be able to better validate tuples and make the model more readable, version 1.1 requires you to specify types for all the relations that were previously assignable (e.g. relations defined `as self` in any way), and it removes the `as self` keyword.

The model above needs to be rewritten as:

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    mode: {
      schema_version: '1.1',
    },
    type_definitions: [
      { type: 'user', relations: {} },
      {
        type: 'group',
        relations: { member: { this: {} } },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            member: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'folder',
        relations: {
          parent: { this: {} },
          viewer: {
            union: {
              child: [
                { this: {} },
                {
                  tupleToUserset: {
                    tupleset: { object: '', relation: 'parent' },
                    computedUserset: { object: '', relation: 'viewer' },
                  },
                },
              ],
            },
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            parent: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'folder' }] },
            viewer: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          parent: { this: {} },
          viewer: { this: {} },
          can_read: {
            union: {
              child: [
                { computedUserset: { object: '', relation: 'viewer' } },
                {
                  tupleToUserset: {
                    tupleset: { object: '', relation: 'parent' },
                    computedUserset: { object: '', relation: 'viewer' },
                  },
                },
              ],
            },
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            parent: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'folder' }] },
            viewer: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
            can_read: { directly_related_user_types: [] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
    schema_version: '1.1',
  }}
/>

After making these changes, <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> will start validating the tuples more strictly, for example, you won’t be able to assign a `document` as a member of a `group`. If your application is writing invalid tuples, you’ll start getting errors when invoking the [`Write` API](/api/service#/Relationship%20Tuples/Write  ).

## Disallowing String Literals in user_ids

With version 1.0 models, you could write a tuple where the user id did not specify a type, for example:

<RelationshipTuplesViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      _description: '"bob" is a member of the "sales" group',
      user: 'bob',
      relation: 'member',
      object: 'group:sales',
    },
  ]}
/>

However, with version 1.1 you always need to specify an object, so “bob’” is no longer a valid identifier. If you don’t have a type in your model that defines relations for users, you can add a ‘user’ type with no relations to your model, for example:

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    type_definitions: [{ type: 'user', relations: {} }],
  }}
/>

You can then use that type when writing tuples:

<RelationshipTuplesViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: 'user:bob',
      relation: 'member',
      object: 'group:sales',
      _description: '"user:bob" is a member of the "sales" group',
    },
  ]}
/>

## Enforcing Type Restrictions

With the model above, the following tuples will be valid according to the type definitions:

<RelationshipTuplesViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: 'user:bob',
      relation: 'member',
      object: 'group:sales',
    },
    {
      user: 'folder:sales',
      relation: 'parent',
      object: 'document:pricing',
    },
    {
      user: 'user:john',
      relation: 'viewer',
      object: 'document:pricing',
    },
  ]}
/>

However, the one below will not be valid, as we can’t assign `group:sales#member` to the viewer relationship of a folder.

<RelationshipTuplesViewer
  relationshipTuples={[{ user: 'group:sales#member', relation: 'viewer', object: 'folder:sales' }]}
/>

You might think that given `group:sales#member` are actually users, you should still be able to assign it. <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> calls expressions like `group:sales#member` ["usersets"](../../concepts.mdx#what-is-a-user), and with our model we can only assign users.

The issue is that there are a lot of other usersets that you don't want to be assigned as viewers of a folder. For example, you would not want to add `document:pricing#viewer` as viewers of the folder as conceptually it does not make sense to say “every viewer of this document should be a viewer of this folder”.

To allow these tuples to be written, you need to specify `group#member` as a valid type for the folder’s viewer relationship. You would want to do the same with the document’s viewer relationship if you want to define that the members of a group can be viewers of a document:

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    type_definitions: [
      { type: 'user', relations: {} },
      {
        type: 'group',
        relations: { member: { this: {} } },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            member: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'folder',
        relations: {
          parent: { this: {} },
          viewer: {
            union: {
              child: [
                { this: {} },
                {
                  tupleToUserset: {
                    tupleset: { object: '', relation: 'parent' },
                    computedUserset: { object: '', relation: 'viewer' },
                  },
                },
              ],
            },
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            parent: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'folder' }] },
            viewer: {
              directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }, { type: 'group', relation: 'member' }],
            },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          parent: { this: {} },
          viewer: { this: {} },
          can_read: {
            union: {
              child: [
                { computedUserset: { object: '', relation: 'viewer' } },
                {
                  tupleToUserset: {
                    tupleset: { object: '', relation: 'parent' },
                    computedUserset: { object: '', relation: 'viewer' },
                  },
                },
              ],
            },
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            parent: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'folder' }] },
            viewer: {
              directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }, { type: 'group', relation: 'member' }],
            },
            can_read: { directly_related_user_types: [] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
    schema_version: '1.1',
  }}
/>

You can identify which usersets you need to add by looking at tuples in your store that have the following structure:

<RelationshipTuplesViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: 'group:sales#member',
      relation: 'viewer',
      object: 'folder:sales',
      _description: 'Members of the "sales" group are viewers of the "sales" folder',
    },
  ]}
/>

If you find a tuple like that, you’ll need to add `group#member` in the list of types allowed in the `viewer` relation of the `folder` type.

## Public Access

When using version 1.0, you can indicate public access to specific objects by specifying a wildcard user in a relationship to any object, e.g.:

<RelationshipTuplesViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: '*',
      relation: 'viewer',
      object: 'document:pricing',
      _description: 'All users are viewers of the "pricing" document',
    },
  ]}
/>

When you write the tuple above, all users are granted the “viewer” relationship for the “pricing" document. You can write those kinds of tuples for any relation that is <ProductConcept section="what-are-direct-and-implied-relationships" linkName="directly assignable" /> in the model.

In version 1.1 we want to be more explicit about the tuples you can write, so you’ll need to declare in the DSL which relations allow wildcards and for which object types. If we want to let any object of type “user” to be a viewer of a specific document, we’ll need to explicitly define it.

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    type_definitions: [
      { type: 'user', relations: {} },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: { viewer: { this: {} } },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            viewer: {
              directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }, { type: 'user', wildcard: {} }],
            },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
    schema_version: '1.1',
  }}
/>

You’ll need to specify `user:*` as the user value in the tuple to enable this:

<RelationshipTuplesViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: 'user:*',
      relation: 'viewer',
      object: 'document:pricing',
      _description: 'All objects of type "user" are viewers of the "pricing" document',
    },
  ]}
/>

Being explicit about the wildcard type restrictions also lets you model scenarios like “all employees can see this document, but not all external users”, “all user accounts can access this document, but not service/machine-to-machine accounts”.

This change implies that you’ll need to change your code to write tuples with this new syntax, and that you’ll need to migrate existing tuples to use the new format.

You might have 3 kinds of tuples in your model that use `*`, with different migration strategies:

1. Tuples that have user = `*`

You would need to retrieve those tuples and write them using the proper type (e.g. `user:*`). To retrieve them, you’ll need to use the [Read endpoint](/api/service#/Relationship%20Tuples/Read), filter on your side the tuples that have `user = “*”`, and call the Write API for each one, with the proper type, e.g:

<RelationshipTuplesViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: 'user:*',
      relation: 'viewer',
      object: 'document:pricing',
      _description: 'All objects of type "user" are viewers of the "pricing" document',
    },
  ]}
/>

2. Tuples that have user = `employee:*`, where `employee` is NOT a type that is defined in the new iteration of your model.

If you have tuples with this format, they will be considered invalid because they don’t have a corresponding type in the model. If you need such a type defined, you’ll need to add it to the model, and the scenario will be similar to the one described below.

3. Tuples that have user = `user:*`, which would mean the user with user_id = `*`, where `user` is type that is defined in the new iteration of your model.

In this case, the meaning of the tuple will change. If you were intending to specify a user with user id = `*`, you will need to encode it in a different way instead of using `*`. If you intended to specify public access to the object (e.g. "every user has this relationship with this object"), 1.0 models will not interpret the `user:*` value as a wildcard but 1.1 models will.

:::caution Warning
If you have any wildcard tuples (i.e., `*` or `user:*`) that were created with model schema 1.0, you <strong><em>must</em></strong> delete and re-add these tuples with the appropriate type. This allows <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm} /> to interpret these tuples appropriately with the model schema 1.1 semantics. Failure to delete and re-add may cause <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm} /> to interpret these tuples incorrectly.
:::

## Query Evaluation Behavior with Type Restrictions

It is possible to introduce new models and have existing tuples (from prior models) with incompatibilities with the new model. Some cases where this can happen include:

- If you rename/delete a type.
- If you rename/delete a relation.
- If you remove a type restriction from the list of type restrictions for a relation, including changes for public access.
- If <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> introduces a change that makes a tuple invalid.

In these cases, <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> will not consider those invalid tuples when evaluating queries ([Check](/api/service#/Relationship%20Queries/Check), [Expand](/api/service#/Relationship%20Queries/Expand), [List-objects](/api/service#/Relationship%20Queries/ListObjects), etc). However, after any of the changes above happen, you should delete those tuples as having a large number of invalid tuples will negatively affect performance.

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Review the following sections for more information on migrating tuples."
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: 'Migrating Relations',
      description: 'Learn how to migrate relations',
      link: './migrating-relations',
      id: './migrating-relations.mdx',
    },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

feat: add authorization model in callout
For Check, Expand, Read, Write, ListObject API callout, include
authorization model id.  In addition, mention obtaining authorization
model id as first step in migrating schema.

Close https://github.com/openfga/openfga.dev/issues/307

docs/content/modeling/migrating/migrating-schema-1-1.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /modeling/migrating/migrating-schema-1-1
---

import {
  AuthzModelSnippetViewer,
  CardBox,
  CheckRequestViewer,
  DocumentationNotice,
  ProductConcept,
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  ReadRequestViewer,
  RelatedSection,
  RelationshipTuplesViewer,
  WriteRequestViewer,
} from '@components/Docs';

# Migrating Models To Schema 1.1

<DocumentationNotice />

<ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm} /> has introduced a new DSL schema version with several changes that we
believe will make models easier to read and write, enable better tuple and model validations, and provide more options for
optimizing the performance of different <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm} /> APIs.<br/><br/>

In short, we will be:

1. [Adding model schema version field](#-model-schema-versions)
2. [Adding type restrictions and removing need to specify `as self`](#type-restrictions--removing-as-self)
3. [Disallowing string literals in user_ids](#disallowing-string-literals-in-user_ids)
4. [Enforcing type restrictions](#enforcing-type-restrictions)
5. [Requiring you to specify for which relations you can write tuples with public access](#public-access)
6. [Changes in query evaluation behavior with type restrictions](#query-evaluation-behavior-with-type-restrictions)

To facilitate migration to the new DSL schema, you will need to update tuples that are no longer valid. In particular, all tuples whose `user` field involves a wildcard character (`*` or `user:*`) defined with model schema 1.0 <u><strong>MUST</strong></u> be deleted and re-added back.

:::info

Before starting to migrate to the new model schema, it is recommended that you obtain your current [authorization model ID](/api/service#/Authorization%20Models/ReadAuthorizationModels) and ensure that all your [check](../../concepts.mdx#what-is-a-check-request), [write](../../getting-started/update-tuples), [read](../../interacting/relationship-queries#read), [expand](../../interacting/relationship-queries#expand) and [list object](../../interacting/relationship-queries#listobjects) are performed against that model id. This allows consistent behavior in your production system until you are ready to switch to the new model. 

:::

## <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> Model Schema Versions

Since the changes in the DSL are significant, we have decided to add a schema version to the DSL. The previous version of the DSL’s schema was `1.0`, and the new schema version will be `1.1`. To use the new syntax please add the following to the top of the model:

```
model
  schema 1.1
```

:::info

<ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm} /> will eventually stop supporting schema version 1.0. Notifications will
be posted in GitHub, Discord and Twitter before this change occurs.

:::

## Type Restrictions & Removing `as self`

We’ll use the following version 1.0 model and tuples to illustrate the changes we’ll need to make:

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    type_definitions: [
      { type: 'user', relations: {} },
      { type: 'group', relations: { member: { this: {} } } },
      {
        type: 'folder',
        relations: {
          parent: { this: {} },
          viewer: {
            union: {
              child: [
                { this: {} },
                {
                  tupleToUserset: {
                    tupleset: { object: '', relation: 'parent' },
                    computedUserset: { object: '', relation: 'viewer' },
                  },
                },
              ],
            },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          parent: { this: {} },
          viewer: { this: {} },
          can_read: {
            union: {
              child: [
                { computedUserset: { object: '', relation: 'viewer' } },
                {
                  tupleToUserset: {
                    tupleset: { object: '', relation: 'parent' },
                    computedUserset: { object: '', relation: 'viewer' },
                  },
                },
              ],
            },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
    schema_version: '1.0',
  }}
/>

<RelationshipTuplesViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: 'user:bob',
      relation: 'member',
      object: 'group:sales',
      _description: 'Bob is a member of the Sales group',
    },
    {
      user: 'folder:sales',
      relation: 'parent',
      object: 'document:pricing',
      _description: 'The "pricing" document is in "sales" folder',
    },
    {
      user: 'group:sales#member',
      relation: 'viewer',
      object: 'folder:sales',
      _description: 'Members of the "sales" team can view the "sales" folder',
    },
    {
      user: 'user:john',
      relation: 'viewer',
      object: 'document:pricing',
      _description: 'John can view the "pricing" document',
    },
  ]}
/>

Those tuples match the intent of how the model was designed, but without type restrictions we can also write tuples that would not. For example, we can say that a document is a member of the sales group:

<RelationshipTuplesViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: 'document:pricing',
      relation: 'member',
      object: 'group:sales',
      _description: 'The "pricing" document is a member of the "sales" group',
    },
  ]}
/>

To be able to better validate tuples and make the model more readable, version 1.1 requires you to specify types for all the relations that were previously assignable (e.g. relations defined `as self` in any way), and it removes the `as self` keyword.

The model above needs to be rewritten as:

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    mode: {
      schema_version: '1.1',
    },
    type_definitions: [
      { type: 'user', relations: {} },
      {
        type: 'group',
        relations: { member: { this: {} } },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            member: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'folder',
        relations: {
          parent: { this: {} },
          viewer: {
            union: {
              child: [
                { this: {} },
                {
                  tupleToUserset: {
                    tupleset: { object: '', relation: 'parent' },
                    computedUserset: { object: '', relation: 'viewer' },
                  },
                },
              ],
            },
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            parent: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'folder' }] },
            viewer: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          parent: { this: {} },
          viewer: { this: {} },
          can_read: {
            union: {
              child: [
                { computedUserset: { object: '', relation: 'viewer' } },
                {
                  tupleToUserset: {
                    tupleset: { object: '', relation: 'parent' },
                    computedUserset: { object: '', relation: 'viewer' },
                  },
                },
              ],
            },
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            parent: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'folder' }] },
            viewer: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
            can_read: { directly_related_user_types: [] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
    schema_version: '1.1',
  }}
/>

After making these changes, <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> will start validating the tuples more strictly, for example, you won’t be able to assign a `document` as a member of a `group`. If your application is writing invalid tuples, you’ll start getting errors when invoking the [`Write` API](/api/service#/Relationship%20Tuples/Write  ).

## Disallowing String Literals in user_ids

With version 1.0 models, you could write a tuple where the user id did not specify a type, for example:

<RelationshipTuplesViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      _description: '"bob" is a member of the "sales" group',
      user: 'bob',
      relation: 'member',
      object: 'group:sales',
    },
  ]}
/>

However, with version 1.1 you always need to specify an object, so “bob’” is no longer a valid identifier. If you don’t have a type in your model that defines relations for users, you can add a ‘user’ type with no relations to your model, for example:

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    type_definitions: [{ type: 'user', relations: {} }],
  }}
/>

You can then use that type when writing tuples:

<RelationshipTuplesViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: 'user:bob',
      relation: 'member',
      object: 'group:sales',
      _description: '"user:bob" is a member of the "sales" group',
    },
  ]}
/>

## Enforcing Type Restrictions

With the model above, the following tuples will be valid according to the type definitions:

<RelationshipTuplesViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: 'user:bob',
      relation: 'member',
      object: 'group:sales',
    },
    {
      user: 'folder:sales',
      relation: 'parent',
      object: 'document:pricing',
    },
    {
      user: 'user:john',
      relation: 'viewer',
      object: 'document:pricing',
    },
  ]}
/>

However, the one below will not be valid, as we can’t assign `group:sales#member` to the viewer relationship of a folder.

<RelationshipTuplesViewer
  relationshipTuples={[{ user: 'group:sales#member', relation: 'viewer', object: 'folder:sales' }]}
/>

You might think that given `group:sales#member` are actually users, you should still be able to assign it. <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> calls expressions like `group:sales#member` ["usersets"](../../concepts.mdx#what-is-a-user), and with our model we can only assign users.

The issue is that there are a lot of other usersets that you don't want to be assigned as viewers of a folder. For example, you would not want to add `document:pricing#viewer` as viewers of the folder as conceptually it does not make sense to say “every viewer of this document should be a viewer of this folder”.

To allow these tuples to be written, you need to specify `group#member` as a valid type for the folder’s viewer relationship. You would want to do the same with the document’s viewer relationship if you want to define that the members of a group can be viewers of a document:

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    type_definitions: [
      { type: 'user', relations: {} },
      {
        type: 'group',
        relations: { member: { this: {} } },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            member: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'folder',
        relations: {
          parent: { this: {} },
          viewer: {
            union: {
              child: [
                { this: {} },
                {
                  tupleToUserset: {
                    tupleset: { object: '', relation: 'parent' },
                    computedUserset: { object: '', relation: 'viewer' },
                  },
                },
              ],
            },
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            parent: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'folder' }] },
            viewer: {
              directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }, { type: 'group', relation: 'member' }],
            },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          parent: { this: {} },
          viewer: { this: {} },
          can_read: {
            union: {
              child: [
                { computedUserset: { object: '', relation: 'viewer' } },
                {
                  tupleToUserset: {
                    tupleset: { object: '', relation: 'parent' },
                    computedUserset: { object: '', relation: 'viewer' },
                  },
                },
              ],
            },
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            parent: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'folder' }] },
            viewer: {
              directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }, { type: 'group', relation: 'member' }],
            },
            can_read: { directly_related_user_types: [] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
    schema_version: '1.1',
  }}
/>

You can identify which usersets you need to add by looking at tuples in your store that have the following structure:

<RelationshipTuplesViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: 'group:sales#member',
      relation: 'viewer',
      object: 'folder:sales',
      _description: 'Members of the "sales" group are viewers of the "sales" folder',
    },
  ]}
/>

If you find a tuple like that, you’ll need to add `group#member` in the list of types allowed in the `viewer` relation of the `folder` type.

## Public Access

When using version 1.0, you can indicate public access to specific objects by specifying a wildcard user in a relationship to any object, e.g.:

<RelationshipTuplesViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: '*',
      relation: 'viewer',
      object: 'document:pricing',
      _description: 'All users are viewers of the "pricing" document',
    },
  ]}
/>

When you write the tuple above, all users are granted the “viewer” relationship for the “pricing" document. You can write those kinds of tuples for any relation that is <ProductConcept section="what-are-direct-and-implied-relationships" linkName="directly assignable" /> in the model.

In version 1.1 we want to be more explicit about the tuples you can write, so you’ll need to declare in the DSL which relations allow wildcards and for which object types. If we want to let any object of type “user” to be a viewer of a specific document, we’ll need to explicitly define it.

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    type_definitions: [
      { type: 'user', relations: {} },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: { viewer: { this: {} } },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            viewer: {
              directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }, { type: 'user', wildcard: {} }],
            },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
    schema_version: '1.1',
  }}
/>

You’ll need to specify `user:*` as the user value in the tuple to enable this:

<RelationshipTuplesViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: 'user:*',
      relation: 'viewer',
      object: 'document:pricing',
      _description: 'All objects of type "user" are viewers of the "pricing" document',
    },
  ]}
/>

Being explicit about the wildcard type restrictions also lets you model scenarios like “all employees can see this document, but not all external users”, “all user accounts can access this document, but not service/machine-to-machine accounts”.

This change implies that you’ll need to change your code to write tuples with this new syntax, and that you’ll need to migrate existing tuples to use the new format.

You might have 3 kinds of tuples in your model that use `*`, with different migration strategies:

1. Tuples that have user = `*`

You would need to retrieve those tuples and write them using the proper type (e.g. `user:*`). To retrieve them, you’ll need to use the [Read endpoint](/api/service#/Relationship%20Tuples/Read), filter on your side the tuples that have `user = “*”`, and call the Write API for each one, with the proper type, e.g:

<RelationshipTuplesViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: 'user:*',
      relation: 'viewer',
      object: 'document:pricing',
      _description: 'All objects of type "user" are viewers of the "pricing" document',
    },
  ]}
/>

2. Tuples that have user = `employee:*`, where `employee` is NOT a type that is defined in the new iteration of your model.

If you have tuples with this format, they will be considered invalid because they don’t have a corresponding type in the model. If you need such a type defined, you’ll need to add it to the model, and the scenario will be similar to the one described below.

3. Tuples that have user = `user:*`, which would mean the user with user_id = `*`, where `user` is type that is defined in the new iteration of your model.

In this case, the meaning of the tuple will change. If you were intending to specify a user with user id = `*`, you will need to encode it in a different way instead of using `*`. If you intended to specify public access to the object (e.g. "every user has this relationship with this object"), 1.0 models will not interpret the `user:*` value as a wildcard but 1.1 models will.

:::caution Warning
If you have any wildcard tuples (i.e., `*` or `user:*`) that were created with model schema 1.0, you <strong><em>must</em></strong> delete and re-add these tuples with the appropriate type. This allows <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm} /> to interpret these tuples appropriately with the model schema 1.1 semantics. Failure to delete and re-add may cause <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm} /> to interpret these tuples incorrectly.
:::

## Query Evaluation Behavior with Type Restrictions

It is possible to introduce new models and have existing tuples (from prior models) with incompatibilities with the new model. Some cases where this can happen include:

- If you rename/delete a type.
- If you rename/delete a relation.
- If you remove a type restriction from the list of type restrictions for a relation, including changes for public access.
- If <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> introduces a change that makes a tuple invalid.

In these cases, <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> will not consider those invalid tuples when evaluating queries ([Check](/api/service#/Relationship%20Queries/Check), [Expand](/api/service#/Relationship%20Queries/Expand), [List-objects](/api/service#/Relationship%20Queries/ListObjects), etc). However, after any of the changes above happen, you should delete those tuples as having a large number of invalid tuples will negatively affect performance.

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Review the following sections for more information on migrating tuples."
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: 'Migrating Relations',
      description: 'Learn how to migrate relations',
      link: './migrating-relations',
      id: './migrating-relations.mdx',
    },
  ]}
/>
