docs/content/modeling/direct-access.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /modeling/direct-access
---

import {
  AuthzModelSnippetViewer,
  CardBox,
  CheckRequestViewer,
  DocumentationNotice,
  Playground,
  ProductConcept,
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  RelatedSection,
  WriteRequestViewer,
} from '@components/Docs';

# Direct Access

<DocumentationNotice />

In this guide you will learn how to grant a <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="user" /> access to an <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="object" /> (such as a certain document) in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ProductLink}/>.

<CardBox title="When to use" appearance="filled" description=<div>

Granting access with _<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="relationship tuple" />_ is a core part of <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>. Without them, any _<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-check-request" linkName="checks" />_ will fail. You should use:

- _authorization model_ to represent what **relation**s are possible between the users and objects in the system
- _relationship tuples_ to represent the facts about the relationships between users and objects in your system.

</div> />

## Before you start

In order to understand this guide correctly you must be familiar with some <ProductConcept/> and know how to develop the things that we will list below.

<details>
<summary>

Assume that you have the following <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-authorization-model" linkName="authorization model" />.<br />
You have a <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="type" /> called `document` that can have a `viewer` and/or an `editor`.

</summary>

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          viewer: {
            this: {},
          },
          editor: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            viewer: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
            editor: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

<hr />

In addition, you will need to know the following:

### <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> Concepts

- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="Type" />: a class of objects that have similar characteristics
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="User" />: an entity in the system that can be related to an object
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relation" linkName="Relation" />: is a string defined in the type definition of an authorization model that defines the possibility of a relationship between an object of the same type as the type definition and a user in the system
- An <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="Object" />: represents an entity in the system. Users' relationships to it can be define through relationship tuples and the authorization model
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="Relationship Tuple" />: a grouping consisting of a user, a relation and an object stored in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>

</details>

<Playground />

## Step By Step

For our applications to understand that **user x** has access to **document y**, we need to provide <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.LongForm}/> that information through _<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="relationship tuples" />_.
Each _relationship tuple_ has three basic parameters, a **<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="user" />**, a **<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relation" linkName="relation" />** and an **<ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="object" />**.

### 01. Create A Relationship Tuple

Let us add a _<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="relationship tuple" />_ to indicate that **bob** who is an `editor` of **document:meeting_notes.doc**. This is represented by adding the following:

<WriteRequestViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: 'user:bob',
      relation: 'editor',
      object: 'document:meeting_notes.doc',
    },
  ]}
/>

### 02. Check That The Relationship Exists

Once that _relationship tuple_ is added to <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm} />, we can _<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-check-request" linkName="check" />_ if the relationship is valid by asking the following: **"is bob an editor of document:meeting_notes.doc?"**

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:bob'} relation={'editor'} object={'document:meeting_notes.doc'} allowed={true} />

If we were to _check_ the following: **"is bob a viewer of document:meeting_notes.doc?"** it would return **false** since that _relationship tuple_ does not exist within <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> yet.

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:bob'} relation={'viewer'} object={'document:meeting_notes.doc'} allowed={false} />

:::caution
**Note:** When creating relationship tuples for <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.LongForm}/> make sure to use unique ids for each object and user within your application domain. We're using first names and simple ids to just illustrate an easy-to-follow example.
:::

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Check the following sections for more on how to model with {ProductName}."
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: '{ProductName} Concepts',
      description: 'Learn about the {ProductName} Concepts.',
      link: '../concepts',
      id: '../fga-concepts',
    },
    {
      title: 'Modeling: Getting Started',
      description: 'Learn about how to get started with modeling.',
      link: './getting-started',
      id: './getting-started',
    },
    {
      title: 'Configuration Language',
      description: 'Learn about {ProductName} Configuration Language.',
      link: '../configuration-language',
      id: '../configuration-language',
    },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

fix: add description for pages where the first line uses JS component
Allow correct description to be rendered for snippets

Close https://github.com/openfga/openfga.dev/issues/268

docs/content/modeling/direct-access.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /modeling/direct-access
description: Model to grant a user access to an object
---

import {
  AuthzModelSnippetViewer,
  CardBox,
  CheckRequestViewer,
  DocumentationNotice,
  Playground,
  ProductConcept,
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  RelatedSection,
  WriteRequestViewer,
} from '@components/Docs';

# Direct Access

<DocumentationNotice />

In this guide you will learn how to grant a <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="user" /> access to an <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="object" /> (such as a certain document) in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ProductLink}/>.

<CardBox title="When to use" appearance="filled" description=<div>

Granting access with _<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="relationship tuple" />_ is a core part of <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>. Without them, any _<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-check-request" linkName="checks" />_ will fail. You should use:

- _authorization model_ to represent what **relation**s are possible between the users and objects in the system
- _relationship tuples_ to represent the facts about the relationships between users and objects in your system.

</div> />

## Before you start

In order to understand this guide correctly you must be familiar with some <ProductConcept/> and know how to develop the things that we will list below.

<details>
<summary>

Assume that you have the following <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-authorization-model" linkName="authorization model" />.<br />
You have a <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="type" /> called `document` that can have a `viewer` and/or an `editor`.

</summary>

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          viewer: {
            this: {},
          },
          editor: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            viewer: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
            editor: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

<hr />

In addition, you will need to know the following:

### <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> Concepts

- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="Type" />: a class of objects that have similar characteristics
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="User" />: an entity in the system that can be related to an object
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relation" linkName="Relation" />: is a string defined in the type definition of an authorization model that defines the possibility of a relationship between an object of the same type as the type definition and a user in the system
- An <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="Object" />: represents an entity in the system. Users' relationships to it can be define through relationship tuples and the authorization model
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="Relationship Tuple" />: a grouping consisting of a user, a relation and an object stored in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>

</details>

<Playground />

## Step By Step

For our applications to understand that **user x** has access to **document y**, we need to provide <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.LongForm}/> that information through _<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="relationship tuples" />_.
Each _relationship tuple_ has three basic parameters, a **<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="user" />**, a **<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relation" linkName="relation" />** and an **<ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="object" />**.

### 01. Create A Relationship Tuple

Let us add a _<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="relationship tuple" />_ to indicate that **bob** who is an `editor` of **document:meeting_notes.doc**. This is represented by adding the following:

<WriteRequestViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: 'user:bob',
      relation: 'editor',
      object: 'document:meeting_notes.doc',
    },
  ]}
/>

### 02. Check That The Relationship Exists

Once that _relationship tuple_ is added to <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm} />, we can _<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-check-request" linkName="check" />_ if the relationship is valid by asking the following: **"is bob an editor of document:meeting_notes.doc?"**

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:bob'} relation={'editor'} object={'document:meeting_notes.doc'} allowed={true} />

If we were to _check_ the following: **"is bob a viewer of document:meeting_notes.doc?"** it would return **false** since that _relationship tuple_ does not exist within <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> yet.

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:bob'} relation={'viewer'} object={'document:meeting_notes.doc'} allowed={false} />

:::caution
**Note:** When creating relationship tuples for <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.LongForm}/> make sure to use unique ids for each object and user within your application domain. We're using first names and simple ids to just illustrate an easy-to-follow example.
:::

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Check the following sections for more on how to model with {ProductName}."
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: '{ProductName} Concepts',
      description: 'Learn about the {ProductName} Concepts.',
      link: '../concepts',
      id: '../fga-concepts',
    },
    {
      title: 'Modeling: Getting Started',
      description: 'Learn about how to get started with modeling.',
      link: './getting-started',
      id: './getting-started',
    },
    {
      title: 'Configuration Language',
      description: 'Learn about {ProductName} Configuration Language.',
      link: '../configuration-language',
      id: '../configuration-language',
    },
  ]}
/>
