docs/content/modeling/multiple-restrictions.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 9
slug: /modeling/multiple-restrictions
---

import {
  AuthzModelSnippetViewer,
  CardBox,
  CheckRequestViewer,
  DocumentationNotice,
  ProductConcept,
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  RelatedSection,
  RelationshipTuplesViewer,
} from '@components/Docs';

# Multiple Restrictions

<DocumentationNotice />

In this guide we are going to model requiring multiple authorizations before allowing users to perform actions on particular objects using <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ProductLink}/>.
For example, _<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="users" />_ are allowed to delete a `document` if both of these conditions are met:

- they are a member of the organization that owns the document
- they have writer permissions on the document

In this way, we prevent other users from deleting such document.

<CardBox title="When to use" appearance="filled" description=<div>

This is useful when:

- Limiting certain actions (such as deleting or reading sensitive document) to privileged users.
- Adding restrictions and requiring multiple authorization paths before granting access.

</div> />

## Before You Start

In order to understand this guide correctly you must be familiar with some <ProductConcept /> and know how to develop the things that we will list below.

<details>
<summary>

You will start with the _<ProductConcept section="what-is-an-authorization-model" linkName="authorization model" />_ below,
it represents a `document` _<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="type" />_ that can have users
**<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relation" linkName="related" />** as `writer` and `organizations` related as `owner`.
Document's `can_write` relation is based on whether user is a writer to the document. The `organization` type can have users related as `member`.

Let us also assume that we have:

- A `document` called "planning" owned by the ABC `organization`.
- Becky is a member of the ABC `organization`.
- Carl is a member of the XYZ `organization`.
- Becky and Carl both have `writer` access to the "planning" `document`.

</summary>

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          owner: {
            this: {},
          },
          writer: {
            this: {},
          },
          can_write: {
            computedUserset: {
              object: '',
              relation: 'writer',
            },
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            owner: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }, { type: 'organization', relation: 'member' }] },
            writer: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }, { type: 'organization', relation: 'member' }] },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'organization',
        relations: {
          member: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            member: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

The current state of the system is represented by the following relationship tuples being in the system already:

<RelationshipTuplesViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      _description: 'organization ABC is the owner of planning document',
      user: 'organization:ABC',
      relation: 'owner',
      object: 'document:planning',
    },
    {
      _description: 'Becky is a writer to the planning document',
      user: 'user:becky',
      relation: 'writer',
      object: 'document:planning',
    },
    {
      _description: 'Carl is a writer to the planning document',
      user: 'user:carl',
      relation: 'writer',
      object: 'document:planning',
    },
    {
      _description: 'Becky is a member of the organization ABC',
      user: 'user:becky',
      relation: 'member',
      object: 'organization:ABC',
    },
    {
      _description: 'Carl is a member of the organization XYZ',
      user: 'user:carl',
      relation: 'member',
      object: 'organization:XYZ',
    },
  ]}
/>

:::info
Note that we assign the organization, not the organization's members, as owner to the planning document.
:::

<hr />

In addition, you will need to know the following:

### Modeling Parent-Child Objects

You need to know how to model access based on parent-child relationships, e.g.: folders and documents. [Learn more →](./parent-child.mdx)

### Modeling Roles And Permissions

You need to know how to model roles for users at the object level and model permissions for those roles. [Learn more →](./roles-and-permissions.mdx)

### <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm} /> Concepts

- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="Type" />: a class of objects that have similar characteristics
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="User" />: an entity in the system that can be related to an object
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relation" linkName="Relation" />: is a string defined in the type definition of an authorization model that defines the possibility of a relationship between an object of the same type as the type definition and a user in the system
- An <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="Object" />: represents an entity in the system. Users' relationships to it can be define through relationship tuples and the authorization model
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="Relationship Tuple" />: a grouping consisting of a user, a relation and an object stored in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm} />
- [Intersection Operator](../configuration-language.mdx#the-intersection-operator): the intersection operator can be used to indicate a relationship exists if the user is in all the sets of users

</details>

## Step By Step

With the above authorization model and relationship tuples, <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.LongForm} /> will correctly respond with `{"allowed":true}` when *<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-check-request" linkName="check" />*is called to see if Carl and Becky can write this `document`.

We can verify that by issuing two check requests:

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:becky'} relation={'can_write'} object={'document:planning'} allowed={true} />

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:carl'} relation={'can_write'} object={'document:planning'} allowed={true} />

What we would like to do is offer a way so that a document can be written by Becky and Carl, but only writers who are also members of the organization that owns the document can remove it.

To do this, we need to:

1. [Add can_delete relation to only allow writers that are members of the ownership organization](#01-add-can_delete-relation-to-only-allow-writers-that-are-members-of-the-ownership-organization)
2. [Verify that our solutions work](#02-verify-that-our-solutions-work)

### 01. Add can_delete Relation To Only Allow Writers That Are Members Of The Ownership Organization

The first step is to add the relation definition for `can_delete` so that it requires users to be both `writer` and `member` of the owner. This is accomplished via the keyword [`and`](../configuration-language.mdx#the-intersection-operator).

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          owner: {
            this: {},
          },
          writer: {
            this: {},
          },
          can_write: {
            computedUserset: {
              object: '',
              relation: 'writer',
            },
          },
          can_delete: {
            intersection: {
              child: [
                {
                  computedUserset: {
                    object: '',
                    relation: 'writer',
                  },
                },
                {
                  tupleToUserset: {
                    tupleset: {
                      object: '',
                      relation: 'owner',
                    },
                    computedUserset: {
                      object: '',
                      relation: 'member',
                    },
                  },
                },
              ],
            },
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            owner: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }, { type: 'organization', relation: 'member' }] },
            writer: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }, { type: 'organization', relation: 'member' }] },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'organization',
        relations: {
          member: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            member: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

### 02. Verify That Our Solutions Work

To verify that our solutions work, we need to check that Becky can delete the planning document because she is a writer AND she is a member of organization:ABC that owns the planning document.

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:becky'} relation={'can_delete'} object={'document:planning'} allowed={true} />

However, Carl cannot delete the planning document because although he is a writer, Carl is not a member of organization:ABC that owns the planning document.

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:carl'} relation={'can_delete'} object={'document:planning'} allowed={false} />

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Check the following sections for more on how to model privileged access."
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: 'Modeling: User Groups',
      description: 'Learn about how to add group members.',
      link: './user-groups',
      id: './user-groups',
    },
    {
      title: 'Modeling: Blocklists',
      description: 'Learn about how to set block lists.',
      link: './blocklists',
      id: './blocklists',
    },
    {
      title: 'Modeling: Public Access',
      description: 'Learn about model public access.',
      link: './public-access',
      id: './public-access',
    },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

fix: add description for pages where the first line uses JS component (#327)
Allow correct description to be rendered for snippets

Close https://github.com/openfga/openfga.dev/issues/268

docs/content/modeling/multiple-restrictions.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 9
slug: /modeling/multiple-restrictions
description: Modeling system that requires multiple authorizations before allowing users to perform actions on particular objects
---

import {
  AuthzModelSnippetViewer,
  CardBox,
  CheckRequestViewer,
  DocumentationNotice,
  ProductConcept,
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  RelatedSection,
  RelationshipTuplesViewer,
} from '@components/Docs';

# Multiple Restrictions

<DocumentationNotice />

In this guide we are going to model system that requires multiple authorizations before allowing users to perform actions on particular objects using <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ProductLink}/>.
For example, _<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="users" />_ are allowed to delete a `document` if both of these conditions are met:

- they are a member of the organization that owns the document
- they have writer permissions on the document

In this way, we prevent other users from deleting such document.

<CardBox title="When to use" appearance="filled" description=<div>

This is useful when:

- Limiting certain actions (such as deleting or reading sensitive document) to privileged users.
- Adding restrictions and requiring multiple authorization paths before granting access.

</div> />

## Before You Start

In order to understand this guide correctly you must be familiar with some <ProductConcept /> and know how to develop the things that we will list below.

<details>
<summary>

You will start with the _<ProductConcept section="what-is-an-authorization-model" linkName="authorization model" />_ below,
it represents a `document` _<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="type" />_ that can have users
**<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relation" linkName="related" />** as `writer` and `organizations` related as `owner`.
Document's `can_write` relation is based on whether user is a writer to the document. The `organization` type can have users related as `member`.

Let us also assume that we have:

- A `document` called "planning" owned by the ABC `organization`.
- Becky is a member of the ABC `organization`.
- Carl is a member of the XYZ `organization`.
- Becky and Carl both have `writer` access to the "planning" `document`.

</summary>

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          owner: {
            this: {},
          },
          writer: {
            this: {},
          },
          can_write: {
            computedUserset: {
              object: '',
              relation: 'writer',
            },
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            owner: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }, { type: 'organization', relation: 'member' }] },
            writer: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }, { type: 'organization', relation: 'member' }] },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'organization',
        relations: {
          member: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            member: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

The current state of the system is represented by the following relationship tuples being in the system already:

<RelationshipTuplesViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      _description: 'organization ABC is the owner of planning document',
      user: 'organization:ABC',
      relation: 'owner',
      object: 'document:planning',
    },
    {
      _description: 'Becky is a writer to the planning document',
      user: 'user:becky',
      relation: 'writer',
      object: 'document:planning',
    },
    {
      _description: 'Carl is a writer to the planning document',
      user: 'user:carl',
      relation: 'writer',
      object: 'document:planning',
    },
    {
      _description: 'Becky is a member of the organization ABC',
      user: 'user:becky',
      relation: 'member',
      object: 'organization:ABC',
    },
    {
      _description: 'Carl is a member of the organization XYZ',
      user: 'user:carl',
      relation: 'member',
      object: 'organization:XYZ',
    },
  ]}
/>

:::info
Note that we assign the organization, not the organization's members, as owner to the planning document.
:::

<hr />

In addition, you will need to know the following:

### Modeling Parent-Child Objects

You need to know how to model access based on parent-child relationships, e.g.: folders and documents. [Learn more →](./parent-child.mdx)

### Modeling Roles And Permissions

You need to know how to model roles for users at the object level and model permissions for those roles. [Learn more →](./roles-and-permissions.mdx)

### <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm} /> Concepts

- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="Type" />: a class of objects that have similar characteristics
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="User" />: an entity in the system that can be related to an object
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relation" linkName="Relation" />: is a string defined in the type definition of an authorization model that defines the possibility of a relationship between an object of the same type as the type definition and a user in the system
- An <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="Object" />: represents an entity in the system. Users' relationships to it can be define through relationship tuples and the authorization model
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="Relationship Tuple" />: a grouping consisting of a user, a relation and an object stored in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm} />
- [Intersection Operator](../configuration-language.mdx#the-intersection-operator): the intersection operator can be used to indicate a relationship exists if the user is in all the sets of users

</details>

## Step By Step

With the above authorization model and relationship tuples, <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.LongForm} /> will correctly respond with `{"allowed":true}` when *<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-check-request" linkName="check" />*is called to see if Carl and Becky can write this `document`.

We can verify that by issuing two check requests:

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:becky'} relation={'can_write'} object={'document:planning'} allowed={true} />

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:carl'} relation={'can_write'} object={'document:planning'} allowed={true} />

What we would like to do is offer a way so that a document can be written by Becky and Carl, but only writers who are also members of the organization that owns the document can remove it.

To do this, we need to:

1. [Add can_delete relation to only allow writers that are members of the ownership organization](#01-add-can_delete-relation-to-only-allow-writers-that-are-members-of-the-ownership-organization)
2. [Verify that our solutions work](#02-verify-that-our-solutions-work)

### 01. Add can_delete Relation To Only Allow Writers That Are Members Of The Ownership Organization

The first step is to add the relation definition for `can_delete` so that it requires users to be both `writer` and `member` of the owner. This is accomplished via the keyword [`and`](../configuration-language.mdx#the-intersection-operator).

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          owner: {
            this: {},
          },
          writer: {
            this: {},
          },
          can_write: {
            computedUserset: {
              object: '',
              relation: 'writer',
            },
          },
          can_delete: {
            intersection: {
              child: [
                {
                  computedUserset: {
                    object: '',
                    relation: 'writer',
                  },
                },
                {
                  tupleToUserset: {
                    tupleset: {
                      object: '',
                      relation: 'owner',
                    },
                    computedUserset: {
                      object: '',
                      relation: 'member',
                    },
                  },
                },
              ],
            },
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            owner: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }, { type: 'organization', relation: 'member' }] },
            writer: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }, { type: 'organization', relation: 'member' }] },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'organization',
        relations: {
          member: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            member: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

### 02. Verify That Our Solutions Work

To verify that our solutions work, we need to check that Becky can delete the planning document because she is a writer AND she is a member of organization:ABC that owns the planning document.

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:becky'} relation={'can_delete'} object={'document:planning'} allowed={true} />

However, Carl cannot delete the planning document because although he is a writer, Carl is not a member of organization:ABC that owns the planning document.

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:carl'} relation={'can_delete'} object={'document:planning'} allowed={false} />

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Check the following sections for more on how to model privileged access."
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: 'Modeling: User Groups',
      description: 'Learn about how to add group members.',
      link: './user-groups',
      id: './user-groups',
    },
    {
      title: 'Modeling: Blocklists',
      description: 'Learn about how to set block lists.',
      link: './blocklists',
      id: './blocklists',
    },
    {
      title: 'Modeling: Public Access',
      description: 'Learn about model public access.',
      link: './public-access',
      id: './public-access',
    },
  ]}
/>
