docs/content/modeling/overview.mdx, before:

---
id: overview
title: 'Modeling Guides'
slug: /modeling
sidebar_position: 0
---

import { DocumentationNotice, IntroCard, CardGrid } from '@components/Docs';

<DocumentationNotice />

This section has guides, concepts and examples that help you define an authorization model.

<IntroCard
  title="When to use"
  description="The content in this section is useful:"
  listItems={[
    `If you are starting with {ProductName} and want to learn how to represent your organization's/system's authorization needs.`,
    `If you are working on iterating on an authorization model you previously defined.`,
  ]}
/>

# Content

<CardGrid
  top={[
    {
      title: 'Getting Started',
      description: 'How to create an authorization model for your system starting from the requirements.',
      to: 'modeling/getting-started',
    },
  ]}
  middle={[
    {
      title: 'Direct Access',
      description: 'Learn the basics of modeling authorization and granting access to users.',
      to: 'modeling/direct-access',
    },
    {
      title: 'User Groups',
      description: 'Learn to model user group membership, and to grant access to all members of a group.',
      to: 'modeling/user-groups',
    },
    {
      title: 'Roles and Permissions',
      description: 'Learn to model roles for users at the object level and model permissions for those roles.',
      to: 'modeling/roles-and-permissions',
    },
    {
      title: 'Parent-Child objects',
      description: 'Learn to model access based on parent-child relationships, e.g.: folders and documents.',
      to: 'modeling/parent-child',
    },
    {
      title: 'Block Lists',
      description: 'Learn to model denying access if users are part of list of blocked users.',
      to: 'modeling/blocklists',
    },
    {
      title: 'Public Access',
      description: 'Learn to model giving everyone specific access to an object, e.g.: everyone can read.',
      to: 'modeling/public-access',
    },
    {
      title: 'Multiple Restrictions',
      description: 'Learn to model requiring multiple privileges before granting access.',
      to: 'modeling/multiple-restrictions',
    },
    {
      title: 'Custom Roles',
      description: 'Learn to model custom roles that are created by users.',
      to: 'modeling/custom-roles',
    },
    {
      title: 'Contextual and Time-Based Authorization',
      description:
        'Learn to model and authorize when IP Address, time, and other dynamic and contextual restrictions are involved.',
      to: 'modeling/contextual-time-based-authorization',
    },
    {
      title: 'Authorization Through Organization Context',
      description: 'Learn to model and authorize when a user belongs to multiple organizations.',
      to: 'modeling/organization-context-authorization',
    },
  ]}
  bottom={[
    {
      title: 'Building Blocks',
      description: 'Learn the underlying concepts/building blocks that can be used to build any model.',
      to: 'modeling/building-blocks',
    },
    {
      title: 'Advanced Use-Cases',
      description: 'Explore advanced use cases and patterns for authorization modeling with OpenFGA.',
      to: 'modeling/advanced',
    },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

feat: documentation on migrating relationship tuples (#257)
* feat: documentation on migrating relationship tuples

Close https://github.com/openfga/openfga.dev/issues/256

Co-authored-by: Sharp <8883519+tr0njavolta@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/content/modeling/overview.mdx, after:

---
id: overview
title: 'Modeling Guides'
slug: /modeling
sidebar_position: 0
---

import { DocumentationNotice, IntroCard, CardGrid } from '@components/Docs';

<DocumentationNotice />

This section has guides, concepts and examples that help you define an authorization model.

<IntroCard
  title="When to use"
  description="The content in this section is useful:"
  listItems={[
    `If you are starting with {ProductName} and want to learn how to represent your organization's/system's authorization needs.`,
    `If you are working on iterating on an authorization model you previously defined.`,
  ]}
/>

# Content

<CardGrid
  top={[
    {
      title: 'Getting Started',
      description: 'How to create an authorization model for your system starting from the requirements.',
      to: 'modeling/getting-started',
    },
  ]}
  middle={[
    {
      title: 'Direct Access',
      description: 'Learn the basics of modeling authorization and granting access to users.',
      to: 'modeling/direct-access',
    },
    {
      title: 'User Groups',
      description: 'Learn to model user group membership, and to grant access to all members of a group.',
      to: 'modeling/user-groups',
    },
    {
      title: 'Roles and Permissions',
      description: 'Learn to model roles for users at the object level and model permissions for those roles.',
      to: 'modeling/roles-and-permissions',
    },
    {
      title: 'Parent-Child objects',
      description: 'Learn to model access based on parent-child relationships, e.g.: folders and documents.',
      to: 'modeling/parent-child',
    },
    {
      title: 'Block Lists',
      description: 'Learn to model denying access if users are part of list of blocked users.',
      to: 'modeling/blocklists',
    },
    {
      title: 'Public Access',
      description: 'Learn to model giving everyone specific access to an object, e.g.: everyone can read.',
      to: 'modeling/public-access',
    },
    {
      title: 'Multiple Restrictions',
      description: 'Learn to model requiring multiple privileges before granting access.',
      to: 'modeling/multiple-restrictions',
    },
    {
      title: 'Custom Roles',
      description: 'Learn to model custom roles that are created by users.',
      to: 'modeling/custom-roles',
    },
    {
      title: 'Contextual and Time-Based Authorization',
      description:
        'Learn to model and authorize when IP Address, time, and other dynamic and contextual restrictions are involved.',
      to: 'modeling/contextual-time-based-authorization',
    },
    {
      title: 'Authorization Through Organization Context',
      description: 'Learn to model and authorize when a user belongs to multiple organizations.',
      to: 'modeling/organization-context-authorization',
    },
    {
      title: 'Migrating Relations',
      description: 'Learn to migrate relations in a production environment.',
      to: 'modeling/migrating-relations',
    },
  ]}
  bottom={[
    {
      title: 'Building Blocks',
      description: 'Learn the underlying concepts/building blocks that can be used to build any model.',
      to: 'modeling/building-blocks',
    },
    {
      title: 'Advanced Use-Cases',
      description: 'Explore advanced use cases and patterns for authorization modeling with OpenFGA.',
      to: 'modeling/advanced',
    },
  ]}
/>
