docs/content/modeling/parent-child.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 7
slug: /modeling/parent-child
description: Indicating relationships between objects, and how users' relationships to one object can affect their relationship with another
---

import {
  AuthzModelSnippetViewer,
  CardBox,
  CheckRequestViewer,
  DocumentationNotice,
  Playground,
  ProductConcept,
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  RelatedSection,
  WriteRequestViewer,
} from '@components/Docs';

# Parent-Child Objects

<DocumentationNotice />

In this guide you will learn how to indicate <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship" linkName="relationships" /> between <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="objects" />, and how users' relationships to one object can affect their relationship with another. For example: how a `editor` of a `folder` can be an `editor` of all `documents` the `folder` is a `parent` of.

<CardBox title="When to use" appearance="filled" description=<div>

Object-to-Object relationships, combined with a configured authorization model can be used to indicate that a user's relation with one object can influence their relationship with another object. This can also be used in some cases to remove the need to modify relations between objects using [user groups](./user-groups.mdx#03-assign-the-team-members-a-relation-to-an-object).

Object-to-object relationships can be used:

- To indicate that `managers` of an `employee` have access to `approve` requests the `employee` has made
- To indicate that users who have a repository admin role (`repo_admin`) in an organization automatically have `admin` access to all repositories in that organization
- To indicate that users who are `subscribed` to a `plan`, get access to all the `features` in that `plan`

</div> />

## Before You Start

In order to understand this guide correctly you must be familiar with some <ProductConcept /> and know how to develop the things that we will list below.

<details>
<summary>

Assume that you have the following <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-authorization-model" linkName="authorization model" />.<br />
You have two types:

- `folder` that users can be related to as an `editor`
- `document` that _users_ can be related to as an `editor`

</summary>

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'folder',
        relations: {
          editor: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            editor: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          editor: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            editor: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

<hr />

In addition, you will need to know the following:

### Direct Access

You need to know how to create an authorization model and create a relationship tuple to grant a user access to an object. [Learn more →](./direct-access.mdx)

### <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> Concepts

- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="Type" />: a class of objects that have similar characteristics
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="User" />: an entity in the system that can be related to an object
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relation" linkName="Relation" />: is a string defined in the type definition of an authorization model that defines the possibility of a relationship between an object of the same type as the type definition and a user in the system
- An <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="Object" />: represents an entity in the system. Users' relationships to it can be define through relationship tuples and the authorization model
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="Relationship Tuple" />: a grouping consisting of a user, a relation and an object stored in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>
- [Union Operator](../configuration-language.mdx#the-union-operator): the union operator can be used to indicate that the user has multiple ways of being related to an object

</details>

<Playground />

## Step By Step

We would like to model folders that contain documents and that a user having editor access to the folder, has editor access to all documents in that folder.

For `editors` of a `folder` to be `editors` of a containing `document`, we need to:

1. Update the authorization model to allow a `parent` relationship between `folder` and `document`
2. Update the `editor` relation in the `document` type definition to support _cascading_ from `folder`

and then to indicate and verify that **bob** is an `editor` of **document:meeting_notes.doc** because **bob** is an `editor` of **folder:notes**, we then need to:

3. Create a new _relationship tuple_ to indicate that **bob** is a `editor` of **folder:notes**
4. Create a new _relationship tuple_ to indicate that **folder:notes** is a `parent` of **document:meeting_notes.doc**
5. Check to see if **bob** is an `editor` of **document:meeting_notes.doc**

### 01. Update The Authorization Model To Allow A Parent Relationship Between Folder And Document

To allow a `parent` relation between a `folder` and a `document`, we need to update the authorization model to be the following (this is to allow creating relationship tuples that can indicate a relationship between `folder` and `document`. Refer to [Modeling Concepts: Object to Object Relationships](./building-blocks/object-to-object-relationships.mdx) to understand why):

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'folder',
        relations: {
          editor: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            editor: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          // A folder can be a parent of a document
          parent: {
            this: {},
          },
          editor: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            parent: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'folder' }] },
            editor: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

:::info

Notice that the `document` type now has a `parent` relation, indicating that other objects can be `parent`s of `document`s

:::

### 02. Update The Editor Relation In The Document Type Definition To Support Cascading From Folder

To allow _cascading_ relations between `folder` and `document`, we can update our authorization model as the following:

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'folder',
        relations: {
          editor: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            editor: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          parent: {
            this: {},
          },
          editor: {
            union: {
              child: [
                {
                  this: {},
                },
                {
                  tupleToUserset: {
                    tupleset: {
                      relation: 'parent',
                    },
                    computedUserset: {
                      relation: 'editor',
                    },
                  },
                },
              ],
            },
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            parent: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'folder' }] },
            editor: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

:::info

`editor` of a `document` are any of:

1. users that are directly assigned as editors
2. users that are related to any `parent` of this document as `editor` (editors of the parent)

:::

So with this change, anyone related to a `folder` that is a `parent` of a `document` as an `editor` is also an `editor` of said `document`.

### 03. Create A New Relationship Tuple To Indicate That bob Is An Editor Of folder:notes

To leverage our _cascading_ relation, we need to create a relationship tuple that states: **bob** is an `editor` of **folder:notes**

<WriteRequestViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: 'user:bob',
      relation: 'editor',
      object: 'folder:notes',
    },
  ]}
/>

### 04. Create A New Relationship Tuple To Indicate That folder:notes Is A Parent Of document:meeting_notes.doc

Now that **bob** is an `editor` of **folder:notes**, we need to indicate that **folder:notes** is a `parent` of `document`:**meeting_notes.doc**

<WriteRequestViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      _description: 'the notes folder is a parent of the meeting notes document',
      user: 'folder:notes',
      relation: 'parent',
      object: 'document:meeting_notes.doc',
    },
  ]}
/>

### 05. Check To See If bob Is An Editor Of document:meeting_notes.doc

Now that we have done the changes to the authorization model and the addition of the two new _relationship tuples_, we can verify if our configuration is correct by running the following check: **is bob an editor of document:meeting_notes.doc**.

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:bob'} relation={'editor'} object={'document:meeting_notes.doc'} allowed={true} />

> Note: There are no other relationship tuples within the store that dictate any direct relation between **bob** and **document:meeting_notes.doc**. The check succeeds because of the _cascading_ relation applied.

The chain of resolution becomes:

- **bob** is an `editor` of **folder:notes**
- **folder:notes** is a `parent` of **document:meeting_notes.doc**
- `editors` of any `parent` `folder` of **document:meeting_notes.doc** are also `editors` of the `document`
- Therefore, **bob** is an `editor` of **document:meeting_notes.doc**

:::caution
**Note:** When creating relationship tuples for <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.LongForm}/> make sure to use unique ids for each object and user within your application domain. We are using first names and simple ids to just illustrate an easy-to-follow example.
:::

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Check the following sections for more on how to model for parent and child objects."
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: 'Modeling Concepts: Object to Object Relationships',
      description: 'Learn about how to model object to object relationships in {ProductName}.',
      link: './building-blocks/object-to-object-relationships',
      id: './building-blocks/object-to-object-relationships',
    },
    {
      title: 'Modeling Google Drive',
      description:
        'See how to make folders parents of documents, and to make editors on the parent folders editors on documents inside them..',
      link: './advanced/gdrive#01-individual-permissions',
      id: './advanced/gdrive.mdx#01-individual-permissions',
    },
    {
      title: 'Modeling GitHub',
      description: 'See how to grant users access to all repositories owned by an organization.',
      link: './advanced/github#01-permissions-for-individuals-in-an-org',
      id: './advanced/github.mdx#01-permissions-for-individuals-in-an-org',
    },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

chore(docs): add a note about openfga not evaluating the tupleset (#264)
* chore(docs): add a note about openfga not evaluating the tupleset

* chore(docs): add note about imporved model validation in v1.1 migration

* chore: fix note around tupleset evaluation

* fix: fix lint and incorrect link

docs/content/modeling/parent-child.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 7
slug: /modeling/parent-child
description: Indicating relationships between objects, and how users' relationships to one object can affect their relationship with another
---

import {
  AuthzModelSnippetViewer,
  CardBox,
  CheckRequestViewer,
  DocumentationNotice,
  Playground,
  ProductConcept,
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  RelatedSection,
  WriteRequestViewer,
} from '@components/Docs';

# Parent-Child Objects

<DocumentationNotice />

In this guide you will learn how to indicate <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship" linkName="relationships" /> between <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="objects" />, and how users' relationships to one object can affect their relationship with another. For example: how a `editor` of a `folder` can be an `editor` of all `documents` the `folder` is a `parent` of.

<CardBox title="When to use" appearance="filled" description=<div>

Object-to-Object relationships, combined with a configured authorization model can be used to indicate that a user's relation with one object can influence their relationship with another object. This can also be used in some cases to remove the need to modify relations between objects using [user groups](./user-groups.mdx#03-assign-the-team-members-a-relation-to-an-object).

Object-to-object relationships can be used:

- To indicate that `managers` of an `employee` have access to `approve` requests the `employee` has made
- To indicate that users who have a repository admin role (`repo_admin`) in an organization automatically have `admin` access to all repositories in that organization
- To indicate that users who are `subscribed` to a `plan`, get access to all the `features` in that `plan`

</div> />

## Before You Start

In order to understand this guide correctly you must be familiar with some <ProductConcept /> and know how to develop the things that we will list below.

<details>
<summary>

Assume that you have the following <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-authorization-model" linkName="authorization model" />.<br />
You have two types:

- `folder` that users can be related to as an `editor`
- `document` that _users_ can be related to as an `editor`

</summary>

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'folder',
        relations: {
          editor: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            editor: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          editor: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            editor: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

<hr />

In addition, you will need to know the following:

### Direct Access

You need to know how to create an authorization model and create a relationship tuple to grant a user access to an object. [Learn more →](./direct-access.mdx)

### <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> Concepts

- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="Type" />: a class of objects that have similar characteristics
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="User" />: an entity in the system that can be related to an object
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relation" linkName="Relation" />: is a string defined in the type definition of an authorization model that defines the possibility of a relationship between an object of the same type as the type definition and a user in the system
- An <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="Object" />: represents an entity in the system. Users' relationships to it can be define through relationship tuples and the authorization model
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="Relationship Tuple" />: a grouping consisting of a user, a relation and an object stored in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>
- [Union Operator](../configuration-language.mdx#the-union-operator): the union operator can be used to indicate that the user has multiple ways of being related to an object

</details>

<Playground />

## Step By Step

We would like to model folders that contain documents and that a user having editor access to the folder, has editor access to all documents in that folder.

For `editors` of a `folder` to be `editors` of a containing `document`, we need to:

1. Update the authorization model to allow a `parent` relationship between `folder` and `document`
2. Update the `editor` relation in the `document` type definition to support _cascading_ from `folder`

and then to indicate and verify that **bob** is an `editor` of **document:meeting_notes.doc** because **bob** is an `editor` of **folder:notes**, we then need to:

3. Create a new _relationship tuple_ to indicate that **bob** is a `editor` of **folder:notes**
4. Create a new _relationship tuple_ to indicate that **folder:notes** is a `parent` of **document:meeting_notes.doc**
5. Check to see if **bob** is an `editor` of **document:meeting_notes.doc**

### 01. Update The Authorization Model To Allow A Parent Relationship Between Folder And Document

To allow a `parent` relation between a `folder` and a `document`, we need to update the authorization model to be the following (this is to allow creating relationship tuples that can indicate a relationship between `folder` and `document`. Refer to [Modeling Concepts: Object to Object Relationships](./building-blocks/object-to-object-relationships.mdx) to understand why):

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'folder',
        relations: {
          editor: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            editor: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          // A folder can be a parent of a document
          parent: {
            this: {},
          },
          editor: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            parent: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'folder' }] },
            editor: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

:::info

Notice that the `document` type now has a `parent` relation, indicating that other objects can be `parent`s of `document`s

:::

### 02. Update The Editor Relation In The Document Type Definition To Support Cascading From Folder

To allow _cascading_ relations between `folder` and `document`, we can update our authorization model as the following:

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'folder',
        relations: {
          editor: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            editor: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          parent: {
            this: {},
          },
          editor: {
            union: {
              child: [
                {
                  this: {},
                },
                {
                  tupleToUserset: {
                    tupleset: {
                      relation: 'parent',
                    },
                    computedUserset: {
                      relation: 'editor',
                    },
                  },
                },
              ],
            },
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            parent: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'folder' }] },
            editor: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

:::info

`editor` of a `document` are any of:

1. users that are directly assigned as editors
2. users that are related to any `parent` of this document as `editor` (editors of the parent)

:::

So with this change, anyone related to a `folder` that is a `parent` of a `document` as an `editor` is also an `editor` of said `document`.

### 03. Create A New Relationship Tuple To Indicate That bob Is An Editor Of folder:notes

To leverage our _cascading_ relation, we need to create a relationship tuple that states: **bob** is an `editor` of **folder:notes**

<WriteRequestViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: 'user:bob',
      relation: 'editor',
      object: 'folder:notes',
    },
  ]}
/>

:::caution
**Note:** Make sure to use unique ids for each object and user within your application domain when creating relationship tuples for <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.LongForm}/>. We are using first names and simple ids to illustrate an easy-to-follow example.
:::

### 04. Create A New Relationship Tuple To Indicate That folder:notes Is A Parent Of document:meeting_notes.doc

Now that **bob** is an `editor` of **folder:notes**, we need to indicate that **folder:notes** is a `parent` of `document`:**meeting_notes.doc**

<WriteRequestViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      _description: 'the notes folder is a parent of the meeting notes document',
      user: 'folder:notes',
      relation: 'parent',
      object: 'document:meeting_notes.doc',
    },
  ]}
/>

### 05. Check To See If bob Is An Editor Of document:meeting_notes.doc

Now that we have done the changes to the authorization model and the addition of the two new _relationship tuples_, we can verify if our configuration is correct by running the following check: **is bob an editor of document:meeting_notes.doc**.

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:bob'} relation={'editor'} object={'document:meeting_notes.doc'} allowed={true} />

> Note: There are no other relationship tuples within the store that dictate any direct relation between **bob** and **document:meeting_notes.doc**. The check succeeds because of the _cascading_ relation applied.

The chain of resolution becomes:

- **bob** is an `editor` of **folder:notes**
- **folder:notes** is a `parent` of **document:meeting_notes.doc**
- `editors` of any `parent` `folder` of **document:meeting_notes.doc** are also `editors` of the `document`
- Therefore, **bob** is an `editor` of **document:meeting_notes.doc**

:::caution
Note that when searching tuples that are related to the object (the word after `from`, also called the tupleset), <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.LongForm}/> will not do any evaluation and will only consider concrete objects (of the form `<object_type>:<object_id>`) that were directly assigned, and will throw an error if it encounters any rewrites, or a `*`, a type bound public access (`<object_type>:*`) or a userset (`<object_type>:<object_id>#<relation>`).

See [Referencing Relations on Related Objects](../configuration-language.mdx#referencing-relations-on-related-objects) for more.
:::

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Check the following sections for more on how to model for parent and child objects."
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: 'Modeling Concepts: Object to Object Relationships',
      description: 'Learn about how to model object to object relationships in {ProductName}.',
      link: './building-blocks/object-to-object-relationships',
      id: './building-blocks/object-to-object-relationships',
    },
    {
      title: 'Modeling Google Drive',
      description:
        'See how to make folders parents of documents, and to make editors on the parent folders editors on documents inside them..',
      link: './advanced/gdrive#01-individual-permissions',
      id: './advanced/gdrive.mdx#01-individual-permissions',
    },
    {
      title: 'Modeling GitHub',
      description: 'See how to grant users access to all repositories owned by an organization.',
      link: './advanced/github#01-permissions-for-individuals-in-an-org',
      id: './advanced/github.mdx#01-permissions-for-individuals-in-an-org',
    },
  ]}
/>
