docs/content/modeling/roles-and-permissions.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 5
slug: /modeling/roles-and-permissions
---

import {
  AuthzModelSnippetViewer,
  CardBox,
  CheckRequestViewer,
  DocumentationNotice,
  Playground,
  ProductConcept,
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  RelatedSection,
  WriteRequestViewer,
} from '@components/Docs';

# Roles and Permissions

<DocumentationNotice />

In this guide you will learn how to model roles and permissions model within <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ProductLink}/> using the _<ProductConcept section="what-is-an-authorization-model" linkName="authorization model" />_ and _<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="relationship tuple" />_.

- **Roles** are assigned to <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="users" /> or a group of users, where any user can have more than one role (`editor`, `owner`, etc..).
- **Permissions** are what allows users to access certain <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="objects" /> based on their specific roles (`device_renamer`, `channel_archiver`, etc..).

For example, the role `viewer` of a `trip` can have **permissions to view bookings** or the role `owners` can have **permissions to add/view bookings to a trip.**

<CardBox title="When to use" appearance="filled" description=<div>

When trying to create a role and permissions model within <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>.:

- Create roles by creating relations that can be directly assigned to users
- Assign permissions by creating relations that users get through other relations

For example:

- Grant someone an `admin` role that can `edit` and `read` a `document`
- Grant someone a `security_guard` role that can `live_video_viewer` on a `device`
- Grant someone a `viewer` role that can `view_products` on a `shop`

There are advantages to implementing roles and permissions within <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>, such as:

- Breaking down existing roles to have more fine grained permissions. This allows your application to check whether a _user_ has access to a certain object without having to explicitly check that specific _users_ role.
- Introduce new roles/permissions or consolidate roles without affecting your application behavior. For example: if in your app all the checks are for the fine permissions `check('bob', 'booking_adder', 'trip:Europe')` instead of `check('bob', 'owner', 'trip:Europe')`, and then you later decide `owners` can no longer add bookings to a `trip`, you can remove the relation within the `trip` type with no code changes in your application, and all the permissions will automatically honor the change.

</div> />

## Before you start

In order to understand this guide correctly you must be familiar with some <ProductConcept /> and know how to develop the things that we will list below.

<details>
<summary>

Assume that you have the following <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-authorization-model" linkName="authorization model" />.<br />
You have a <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="type" /> called `trip` that _users_ can be related to as `viewer` and/or an `owner`.

</summary>

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'trip',
        relations: {
          owner: {
            this: {},
          },
          viewer: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            owner: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
            viewer: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

<hr />

In addition, you will need to know the following:

### Direct Access

You need to know how to create an authorization model and create a relationship tuple to grant a user access to an object. [Learn more →](./direct-access.mdx)

### <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> Concepts

- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="Type" />: a class of objects that have similar characteristics
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="User" />: an entity in the system that can be related to an object
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relation" linkName="Relation" />: is a string defined in the type definition of an authorization model that defines the possibility of a relationship between an object of the same type as the type definition and a user in the system
- An <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="Object" />: represents an entity in the system. Users' relationships to it can be define through relationship tuples and the authorization model
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="Relationship Tuple" />: a grouping consisting of a user, a relation and an object stored in Auth <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship" linkName="Relationship" />: <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> will be called to check if there is a relationship between a user and an object, indicating that the access is allowed
- [Direct Relationship Keyword](../configuration-language.mdx#the-direct-relationship-keyword): The `self` keyword can be used to indicate direct relationships between users and objects
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-check-request" linkName="Check API Request" /> the Check API Request is used to check for relationships between users and objects

</details>

<Playground />

## Step By Step

To illustrate modeling Roles and Permissions in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>, we will use a trip booking system where you can have `owners` and/or `viewers` that can have more granular permissions such as adding bookings to a trip or viewing bookings on it.

In order to represent this, we need to:

1. Understand how roles are related to direct relations for our trip booking system
2. Adding implied relations to existing authorization model to define permissions for bookings
3. <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-check-request" linkName="Checking" /> user roles and their permissions based on *relationship
   tuples* for direct and implied relations

### 01. Understand How Roles Work Within Our Trip Booking System

Relating roles within <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> can be best described as the following: **Roles are relations that can be directly assigned to users.** Looking at our authorization model, our roles would then be `owner` and `viewer`. Meaning that a specific _user_ can be an `owner` and/or a `viewer`.

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'trip',
        relations: {
          // Users can have role: 'owner'
          owner: {
            this: {},
          },
          // Users can have role: 'viewer'
          viewer: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            owner: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
            viewer: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

### 02. Adding Permissions For Bookings

Permissions within <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.LongForm}/> can be best described as the following: **Permissions are relations that users get only through other relations.** To represent permissions, we avoid adding the [**direct relationship keyword**](../configuration-language.mdx#the-direct-relationship-keyword) (`self`) to the relation in the authorization model. Instead, we define the relation from other relations to indicate that it is a permission granted to and implied from a different relation.

To add permissions related to bookings, we can add new relations to the `trip` _object_ type denoting the various actions a user can take on `trips` (view, edit, delete, rename, etc...)

To allow `viewers` of a `trip` to have **permissions to view bookings** and `owners` to have **permissions to add/view bookings,** we would modify the type as the following:

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'trip',
        relations: {
          // User Roles: `owner` and `viewer`
          owner: {
            this: {},
          },
          viewer: {
            this: {},
          },
          // Permission `booking_adder`
          booking_adder: {
            // Users with role: `owner` can add bookings
            computedUserset: {
              relation: 'owner',
            },
          },
          // Permission `booking_viewer`
          booking_viewer: {
            union: {
              child: [
                {
                  // Users with role: `viewer` can view bookings
                  computedUserset: {
                    relation: 'viewer',
                  },
                },
                {
                  // Users with role: `owner` can view bookings
                  computedUserset: {
                    relation: 'owner',
                  },
                },
              ],
            },
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            owner: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
            viewer: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

> Note: notice how both `booking_viewer` and `booking_adder` don't have the `self` syntax, this is to ensure that the relation can only be assigned through the **role** and not directly.

### 03. Checking User Roles And Their Permissions

Now that our type definitions reflects the roles and permissions on how bookings can be viewed/added. Let's create _<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="relationship tuples" />_ to assign roles to _users_ and then *<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-check-request" linkName="check" />*if _users_ have the proper permissions.

Let us create two relationship tuples:

1. that gives **bob** the role of `viewer` on `trip`: **Europe**.
2. that gives **alice** the role of `owner` on `trip`: **Europe**.

<WriteRequestViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      _description: 'Add bob as viewer on trip:Europe',
      user: 'user:bob',
      relation: 'viewer',
      object: 'trip:Europe',
    },
    {
      _description: 'Add alice as owner on trip:Europe',
      user: 'user:alice',
      relation: 'owner',
      object: 'trip:Europe',
    },
  ]}
/>

Now we can check: **is bob allowed to view bookings on trip Europe?**

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:bob'} relation={'booking_viewer'} object={'trip:Europe'} allowed={true} />

**bob** is a `booking_viewer` because of the following chain of resolution:

1. **bob** is a `viewer` on `trip`: **Europe**
2. Any user related to the _object_ `trip:`**Europe** as `viewer` is also related as a `booking_viewer` (i.e `usersRelatedToObjectAs: viewer`)
3. Therefore, all `viewers` on a given `trip` are `booking_viewers`

To confirm that **bob is not allowed to add bookings on trip Europe**, we can do the following check:

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:bob'} relation={'booking_adder'} object={'trip:Europe'} allowed={false} />

We can also check: **is alice allowed to view and add bookings on trip Europe?**

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:alice'} relation={'booking_viewer'} object={'trip:Europe'} allowed={true} />
<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:alice'} relation={'booking_adder'} object={'trip:Europe'} allowed={true} />

**alice** is a `booking_viewer` and `booking_adder` because of the following chain of resolution:

1. **alice** is a `owner` on `trip`: **Europe**
2. Any user related to the _object_ `trip:`**Europe** as `owner` is also related as a `booking_viewer`
3. Any user related to the _object_ `trip:`**Europe** as `owner` is also related as a `booking_adder`
4. Therefore, all `owners` on a given `trip` are `booking_viewers` and `booking_adders` on that trip

:::caution
**Note:** Make sure to use unique ids for each object and user within your application domain when creating relationship tuples for <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.LongForm}/>. We are using first names and simple ids to just illustrate an easy-to-follow example.
:::

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Check the following sections for more on how to model for roles and permissions."
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: 'Modeling Concepts: Concentric Relationships',
      description: 'Learn about how to represent a concentric relationships in {ProductName}.',
      link: './building-blocks/concentric-relationships',
      id: './building-blocks/concentric-relationships',
    },
    {
      title: 'Modeling Google Drive',
      description: 'See how to indicate that editors are commenters and viewers in Google Drive.',
      link: './advanced/gdrive#01-individual-permissions',
      id: './advanced/gdrive.mdx#01-individual-permissions',
    },
    {
      title: 'Modeling GitHub',
      description: 'See how to indicate that repository admins are writers and readers in GitHub.',
      link: './advanced/github#01-permissions-for-individuals-in-an-org',
      id: './advanced/github.mdx#01-permissions-for-individuals-in-an-org',
    },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

fix: add description for pages where the first line uses JS component
Allow correct description to be rendered for snippets

Close https://github.com/openfga/openfga.dev/issues/268

docs/content/modeling/roles-and-permissions.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 5
slug: /modeling/roles-and-permissions
description: Model roles and permissions using the authorization model and relationship tuple.
---

import {
  AuthzModelSnippetViewer,
  CardBox,
  CheckRequestViewer,
  DocumentationNotice,
  Playground,
  ProductConcept,
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  RelatedSection,
  WriteRequestViewer,
} from '@components/Docs';

# Roles and Permissions

<DocumentationNotice />

In this guide you will learn how to model roles and permissions model within <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ProductLink}/> using the _<ProductConcept section="what-is-an-authorization-model" linkName="authorization model" />_ and _<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="relationship tuple" />_.

- **Roles** are assigned to <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="users" /> or a group of users, where any user can have more than one role (`editor`, `owner`, etc..).
- **Permissions** are what allows users to access certain <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="objects" /> based on their specific roles (`device_renamer`, `channel_archiver`, etc..).

For example, the role `viewer` of a `trip` can have **permissions to view bookings** or the role `owners` can have **permissions to add/view bookings to a trip.**

<CardBox title="When to use" appearance="filled" description=<div>

When trying to create a role and permissions model within <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>.:

- Create roles by creating relations that can be directly assigned to users
- Assign permissions by creating relations that users get through other relations

For example:

- Grant someone an `admin` role that can `edit` and `read` a `document`
- Grant someone a `security_guard` role that can `live_video_viewer` on a `device`
- Grant someone a `viewer` role that can `view_products` on a `shop`

There are advantages to implementing roles and permissions within <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>, such as:

- Breaking down existing roles to have more fine grained permissions. This allows your application to check whether a _user_ has access to a certain object without having to explicitly check that specific _users_ role.
- Introduce new roles/permissions or consolidate roles without affecting your application behavior. For example: if in your app all the checks are for the fine permissions `check('bob', 'booking_adder', 'trip:Europe')` instead of `check('bob', 'owner', 'trip:Europe')`, and then you later decide `owners` can no longer add bookings to a `trip`, you can remove the relation within the `trip` type with no code changes in your application, and all the permissions will automatically honor the change.

</div> />

## Before you start

In order to understand this guide correctly you must be familiar with some <ProductConcept /> and know how to develop the things that we will list below.

<details>
<summary>

Assume that you have the following <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-authorization-model" linkName="authorization model" />.<br />
You have a <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="type" /> called `trip` that _users_ can be related to as `viewer` and/or an `owner`.

</summary>

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'trip',
        relations: {
          owner: {
            this: {},
          },
          viewer: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            owner: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
            viewer: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

<hr />

In addition, you will need to know the following:

### Direct Access

You need to know how to create an authorization model and create a relationship tuple to grant a user access to an object. [Learn more →](./direct-access.mdx)

### <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> Concepts

- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="Type" />: a class of objects that have similar characteristics
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="User" />: an entity in the system that can be related to an object
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relation" linkName="Relation" />: is a string defined in the type definition of an authorization model that defines the possibility of a relationship between an object of the same type as the type definition and a user in the system
- An <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="Object" />: represents an entity in the system. Users' relationships to it can be define through relationship tuples and the authorization model
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="Relationship Tuple" />: a grouping consisting of a user, a relation and an object stored in Auth <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship" linkName="Relationship" />: <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> will be called to check if there is a relationship between a user and an object, indicating that the access is allowed
- [Direct Relationship Keyword](../configuration-language.mdx#the-direct-relationship-keyword): The `self` keyword can be used to indicate direct relationships between users and objects
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-check-request" linkName="Check API Request" /> the Check API Request is used to check for relationships between users and objects

</details>

<Playground />

## Step By Step

To illustrate modeling Roles and Permissions in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>, we will use a trip booking system where you can have `owners` and/or `viewers` that can have more granular permissions such as adding bookings to a trip or viewing bookings on it.

In order to represent this, we need to:

1. Understand how roles are related to direct relations for our trip booking system
2. Adding implied relations to existing authorization model to define permissions for bookings
3. <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-check-request" linkName="Checking" /> user roles and their permissions based on *relationship
   tuples* for direct and implied relations

### 01. Understand How Roles Work Within Our Trip Booking System

Relating roles within <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> can be best described as the following: **Roles are relations that can be directly assigned to users.** Looking at our authorization model, our roles would then be `owner` and `viewer`. Meaning that a specific _user_ can be an `owner` and/or a `viewer`.

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'trip',
        relations: {
          // Users can have role: 'owner'
          owner: {
            this: {},
          },
          // Users can have role: 'viewer'
          viewer: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            owner: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
            viewer: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

### 02. Adding Permissions For Bookings

Permissions within <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.LongForm}/> can be best described as the following: **Permissions are relations that users get only through other relations.** To represent permissions, we avoid adding the [**direct relationship keyword**](../configuration-language.mdx#the-direct-relationship-keyword) (`self`) to the relation in the authorization model. Instead, we define the relation from other relations to indicate that it is a permission granted to and implied from a different relation.

To add permissions related to bookings, we can add new relations to the `trip` _object_ type denoting the various actions a user can take on `trips` (view, edit, delete, rename, etc...)

To allow `viewers` of a `trip` to have **permissions to view bookings** and `owners` to have **permissions to add/view bookings,** we would modify the type as the following:

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'trip',
        relations: {
          // User Roles: `owner` and `viewer`
          owner: {
            this: {},
          },
          viewer: {
            this: {},
          },
          // Permission `booking_adder`
          booking_adder: {
            // Users with role: `owner` can add bookings
            computedUserset: {
              relation: 'owner',
            },
          },
          // Permission `booking_viewer`
          booking_viewer: {
            union: {
              child: [
                {
                  // Users with role: `viewer` can view bookings
                  computedUserset: {
                    relation: 'viewer',
                  },
                },
                {
                  // Users with role: `owner` can view bookings
                  computedUserset: {
                    relation: 'owner',
                  },
                },
              ],
            },
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            owner: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
            viewer: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

> Note: notice how both `booking_viewer` and `booking_adder` don't have the `self` syntax, this is to ensure that the relation can only be assigned through the **role** and not directly.

### 03. Checking User Roles And Their Permissions

Now that our type definitions reflects the roles and permissions on how bookings can be viewed/added. Let's create _<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="relationship tuples" />_ to assign roles to _users_ and then *<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-check-request" linkName="check" />*if _users_ have the proper permissions.

Let us create two relationship tuples:

1. that gives **bob** the role of `viewer` on `trip`: **Europe**.
2. that gives **alice** the role of `owner` on `trip`: **Europe**.

<WriteRequestViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      _description: 'Add bob as viewer on trip:Europe',
      user: 'user:bob',
      relation: 'viewer',
      object: 'trip:Europe',
    },
    {
      _description: 'Add alice as owner on trip:Europe',
      user: 'user:alice',
      relation: 'owner',
      object: 'trip:Europe',
    },
  ]}
/>

Now we can check: **is bob allowed to view bookings on trip Europe?**

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:bob'} relation={'booking_viewer'} object={'trip:Europe'} allowed={true} />

**bob** is a `booking_viewer` because of the following chain of resolution:

1. **bob** is a `viewer` on `trip`: **Europe**
2. Any user related to the _object_ `trip:`**Europe** as `viewer` is also related as a `booking_viewer` (i.e `usersRelatedToObjectAs: viewer`)
3. Therefore, all `viewers` on a given `trip` are `booking_viewers`

To confirm that **bob is not allowed to add bookings on trip Europe**, we can do the following check:

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:bob'} relation={'booking_adder'} object={'trip:Europe'} allowed={false} />

We can also check: **is alice allowed to view and add bookings on trip Europe?**

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:alice'} relation={'booking_viewer'} object={'trip:Europe'} allowed={true} />
<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:alice'} relation={'booking_adder'} object={'trip:Europe'} allowed={true} />

**alice** is a `booking_viewer` and `booking_adder` because of the following chain of resolution:

1. **alice** is a `owner` on `trip`: **Europe**
2. Any user related to the _object_ `trip:`**Europe** as `owner` is also related as a `booking_viewer`
3. Any user related to the _object_ `trip:`**Europe** as `owner` is also related as a `booking_adder`
4. Therefore, all `owners` on a given `trip` are `booking_viewers` and `booking_adders` on that trip

:::caution
**Note:** Make sure to use unique ids for each object and user within your application domain when creating relationship tuples for <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.LongForm}/>. We are using first names and simple ids to just illustrate an easy-to-follow example.
:::

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Check the following sections for more on how to model for roles and permissions."
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: 'Modeling Concepts: Concentric Relationships',
      description: 'Learn about how to represent a concentric relationships in {ProductName}.',
      link: './building-blocks/concentric-relationships',
      id: './building-blocks/concentric-relationships',
    },
    {
      title: 'Modeling Google Drive',
      description: 'See how to indicate that editors are commenters and viewers in Google Drive.',
      link: './advanced/gdrive#01-individual-permissions',
      id: './advanced/gdrive.mdx#01-individual-permissions',
    },
    {
      title: 'Modeling GitHub',
      description: 'See how to indicate that repository admins are writers and readers in GitHub.',
      link: './advanced/github#01-permissions-for-individuals-in-an-org',
      id: './advanced/github.mdx#01-permissions-for-individuals-in-an-org',
    },
  ]}
/>
