docs/content/modeling/testing-models.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 6
slug: /modeling/testing
description: Testing Models
---

import {
  DocumentationNotice,
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  RelatedSection,
} from '@components/Docs';

# Testing Models

<DocumentationNotice />

Every <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> model should be tested before deployment to ensure your authorization model is correctly designed.

The `.fga.yaml` contains tests for <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> authorization models. If you are using Visual Studio Code as your IDE, install the [OpenFGA extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=openfga.openfga-vscode) to enable syntax coloring and validation.

## Define the model and tuples

`.fga.yaml` files have the following top level items:

| Object  | Description |
| -------- | -------- | 
| `name` (optional)   | A descriptive name for the test file   | 
| `model` or `model_file`   | An <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> model or a reference to an external model file in `fga`, `json` or `mod` format  | 
|`tuples` or `tuple_file` or multiple `tuple_files` (optional) | A set of tuples or a reference to an external tuple file in `json`, `yaml` or `csv` format. These are considered for all tests. |
|`tests` | A set of tests that verify the return values of <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> API calls |

The example below defines a model and tuples:

```yaml
name: Model Tests # optional

# model_file: ./model.fga # you can specify an external .fga file, or include it inline
model: |
  model
    schema 1.1

  type user

  type organization
     relations
       define member : [user]
       define admin : [user with non_expired_grant]

   condition non_expired_grant(current_time: timestamp, grant_time: timestamp, grant_duration: duration) {
     current_time < grant_time + grant_duration
  }

# You can provide relationship tuples in one of the following ways:
# - As a single external file using 'tuple_file'
# - As multiple external files using 'tuple_files'
# - Inline directly using 'tuples'
#
# Examples:
# tuple_file: ./tuples.yaml           # Single external file
# tuple_files:                        # Multiple external files
#   - ./tuples_2.yaml
#   - ./tuples_3.yaml
tuples:                                # Inline tuple definitions go here


   # Anne is a member of the Acme organization
  - user: user:anne
    relation: member
    object: organization:acme

  # Peter has the admin role from February 2nd 2024 0AM to 1AM
  - user: user:peter
    relation: admin
    object: organization:acme
    condition: 
      name: non_expired_grant
      context: 
        grant_time : "2024-02-01T00:00:00Z"
        grant_duration : 1h

```
## Write tests

Always write tests to verify that the calls your application will make return the results you expect. A good test covers scenarios that verify every relation.

Tests have the following structure:

| Object  | Description |
| -------- | -------- | 
|`name` (optional) | A descriptive name for the test, like “Organization Membership”  | 
|`tuple_file` or `tuple_files` or `tuples` | A set of tuples that are only considered for the test | 
|`check` | A set of tests for Check calls, each with a user/object and a set of assertions |
|`list_objects` | A set of tests for ListObjects calls, each one with a user/type and a set of assertions for any number of relations|
|`list_users` | A set of tests for ListUsers calls, each one with an object and user filter and a set of assertions for the users for any number of relations |

## Write Check tests

Check tests verify the results of the [check API](../getting-started/perform-check.mdx) calls to validate access requirements for a user. Each check verification has the following structure:

| Object  | Description |
| -------- | -------- | 
|`user` | The user type and user id you are checking for access | 
|`object` | The object type and object id related to the user | 
|`context` | A set of tests for contextual parameters used to evaluate [conditions](./conditions.mdx)|
|`assertions` | A list of `relation:expected-result` pairs |
|`<relation>: <true or false>` | The name of the relation you want to verify and the expected result |

The following example adds multiple check verifications in every test:

```yaml
tests:
  - name: Test
    check:
      - user: user:anne
        object: organization:acme
        assertions:
          member: true
          admin: false

      - user: user:peter
        object: organization:acme
        context: 
          current_time : "2024-02-01T00:10:00Z"
        assertions:
          member: false
          admin: true
```

## Write List Objects tests

A good test covers scenarios that specify every relation for every object type that your application will need to call the [list-objects API](../getting-started/perform-list-objects.mdx) for.

The following verifies the expected results using the `list_objects` option in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> tests:

```yaml
    list_objects:
      - user: user:anne
        type: organization
        assertions:
            member: 
                - organization:acme
            admin: []
              
      - user: user:peter
        type: organization
        context: 
          current_time : "2024-02-01T00:10:00Z"

        assertions:
            member: []
            admin: 
                - organization:acme

```
The example above checks that `user:anne` has access to the `organization:acme` as a member and is not an admin of any organization. It also checks that `user:peter`, given the current time is February 1st 2024, 0:10 AM, is not related to any organization as a member, but is related to `organization:acme` as an admin.

## Write List Users tests

List users tests verify the results of the [list-users API](../getting-started/perform-list-users.mdx) to validate the users who or do not have access to an object

Each list users verification has the following structure:

| Object  | Description |
| -------- | -------- | 
|`object` | The object to list users for |
|`user_filter` | Specifies the type or userset to filter with, this must only contain one entry |
|`user_filter.type` | The specific type of results to return with response |
|`user_filter.relation` | The specific relation of results to return with response. Specify to return usersets (optional) |
|`context` | A set of tests for contextual parameters used to evaluate [conditions](./conditions.mdx)|
|`assertions` | A list of assertions to make |
|`<relation>` | The name of the relation you want to verify |
|`<relation>.users` | The users who should have the stated relation to the object |

In order to simplify test writing, the following syntax is supported for the various object types included in `users` from the API response:

* `<type>:<id>` to represent a userset that is a user
* `<type>:<id>#<relation>` to represent a userset that is a relation on a type
* `<type>:*` to represent a userset that is a type bound public access for a type

The following is an example of using the `list_users` option in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> tests:

```yaml
    list_users:
      - object: organization:acme
        user_filter:
          - type: user
        context: 
          current_time : "2024-02-02T00:10:00Z"
        assertions:
            member:
              users:
                - user:anne
            admin: 
              users: []

```
The example above checks that the `organization:acme`, given the current time is February 2nd 2024, it has 'user:anne' as a `member`, nobody as an `admin`. If we tried with current time being February 1st 2024, then `user:peter` would be listed as an `admin`

## Testing with Modular Models

If you are using [Modular Models](./modular-models.mdx), you need to use the `fga.mod` as the `model_file`. 

You can define tests for each model in separate `.fga.yaml` files, all of which should reference the common `fga.mod` model. Shared relationship tuples can be placed in a separate file and included using the `tuple_file` option. If needed, you can split tuples across multiple shared files and include them with the `tuple_files` option. Additionally, each `.fga.yaml` file can include module-specific tuples inline.

## Running tests

Tests are run using the `model test` CLI command. For instructions on installing the OpenFGA CLI, visit the [OpenFGA CLI Github repository](https://github.com/openfga/cli).

```shell
fga model test --tests <filename>.fga.yaml
```

When all tests pass, a summary with the number of tests passed is displayed. When a test fails, a line for every test is displayed.

```shell
$ fga model test --tests docs.fga.yaml
# Test Summary #
Tests 2/2 passing
Checks 4/4 passing
ListObjects 4/4 passing

$ fga model test --tests docs.fga.yaml
(FAILING) : ListUsers(1/2 passing)
ⅹ ListUsers(object={Type:organization Id:acme},relation=member,user_filter={Type:user Relation:<nil>}, context:&map[current_time:2024-02-02T00:10:00Z]): expected={Users:[user:ann]}, got={Users:[user:anne]}
---
# Test Summary #
Tests 1/2 passing
Checks 4/4 passing
ListObjects 4/4 passing
```

## Running tests using GitHub Actions

Use the [OpenFGA Model Testing Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/openfga-model-testing-action) to run tests from CI/CD flows in GitHub.

Set the path to the `.fga.yaml` file as the `store-file-path` parameter when configuring the action:

```yaml
name: Test Action

on:
  workflow_dispatch:
  pull_request:
    branches:
      - main

jobs:
  test:
    name: Run test
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout Project
        uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - name: Run Test
        uses: openfga/action-openfga-test@v0.1.0
        with:
          store-file-path: ./example/model.fga.yaml

```

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Check the following sections for more on how to learn how to write tests."
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: 'Use the FGA CLI ',
      description: 'Learn how to use the FGA CLI.',
      link: '../getting-started/cli',
      id:  '../getting-started/cli.mdx',
    },
    {
      title: 'Super Admin Example ',
      description: 'Define a model and tests for modeling a super-admin role.',
      link: 'https://github.com/openfga/sample-stores/blob/main/stores/superadmin/store.fga.yaml'
    }, 
    {
      title: 'Banking Example ',
      description: 'Define a model and tests for banking application.',
      link: 'https://github.com/openfga/sample-stores/blob/main/stores/banking/store.fga.yaml'
    },
    {
      title: 'Entitlements Example ',
      description: 'Define a model and tests for B2B application entitlements.',
      link: 'https://github.com/openfga/sample-stores/blob/main/stores/advanced-entitlements/store.fga.yaml'
    }
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

docs: Add store file format documentation (mirrored from CLI repo) (#1053)
Co-authored-by: Raghd Hamzeh <raghd.hamzeh@openfga.dev>
Co-authored-by: Raghd Hamzeh <raghd@rhamzeh.com>

docs/content/modeling/testing-models.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 6
slug: /modeling/testing
description: Testing Models
---

import {
  DocumentationNotice,
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  RelatedSection,
} from '@components/Docs';

# Testing Models

<DocumentationNotice />

Every <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> model should be tested before deployment to ensure your authorization model is correctly designed.

The `.fga.yaml` contains tests for <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> authorization models. If you are using Visual Studio Code as your IDE, install the [OpenFGA extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=openfga.openfga-vscode) to enable syntax coloring and validation.

For complete details on the `.fga.yaml` store file format, see [Store File Format](./store-file-format.mdx).


## Define the model and tuples

`.fga.yaml` files have the following top level items:

| Object  | Description |
| -------- | -------- | 
| `name` (optional)   | A descriptive name for the test file   | 
| `model` or `model_file`   | An <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> model or a reference to an external model file in `fga`, `json` or `mod` format  | 
|`tuples` or `tuple_file` or multiple `tuple_files` (optional) | A set of tuples or a reference to an external tuple file in `json`, `yaml` or `csv` format. These are considered for all tests. |
|`tests` | A set of tests that verify the return values of <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> API calls |

The example below defines a model and tuples:

```yaml
name: Model Tests # optional

# model_file: ./model.fga # you can specify an external .fga file, or include it inline
model: |
  model
    schema 1.1

  type user

  type organization
     relations
       define member : [user]
       define admin : [user with non_expired_grant]

   condition non_expired_grant(current_time: timestamp, grant_time: timestamp, grant_duration: duration) {
     current_time < grant_time + grant_duration
  }

# You can provide relationship tuples in one of the following ways:
# - As a single external file using 'tuple_file'
# - As multiple external files using 'tuple_files'
# - Inline directly using 'tuples'
#
# Examples:
# tuple_file: ./tuples.yaml           # Single external file
# tuple_files:                        # Multiple external files
#   - ./tuples_2.yaml
#   - ./tuples_3.yaml
tuples:                                # Inline tuple definitions go here


   # Anne is a member of the Acme organization
  - user: user:anne
    relation: member
    object: organization:acme

  # Peter has the admin role from February 2nd 2024 0AM to 1AM
  - user: user:peter
    relation: admin
    object: organization:acme
    condition: 
      name: non_expired_grant
      context: 
        grant_time : "2024-02-01T00:00:00Z"
        grant_duration : 1h

```
## Write tests

Always write tests to verify that the calls your application will make return the results you expect. A good test covers scenarios that verify every relation.

Tests have the following structure:

| Object  | Description |
| -------- | -------- | 
|`name` (optional) | A descriptive name for the test, like “Organization Membership”  | 
|`tuple_file` or `tuple_files` or `tuples` | A set of tuples that are only considered for the test | 
|`check` | A set of tests for Check calls, each with a user/object and a set of assertions |
|`list_objects` | A set of tests for ListObjects calls, each one with a user/type and a set of assertions for any number of relations|
|`list_users` | A set of tests for ListUsers calls, each one with an object and user filter and a set of assertions for the users for any number of relations |

## Write Check tests

Check tests verify the results of the [check API](../getting-started/perform-check.mdx) calls to validate access requirements for a user. Each check verification has the following structure:

| Object  | Description |
| -------- | -------- | 
|`user` | The user type and user id you are checking for access | 
|`object` | The object type and object id related to the user | 
|`context` | A set of tests for contextual parameters used to evaluate [conditions](./conditions.mdx)|
|`assertions` | A list of `relation:expected-result` pairs |
|`<relation>: <true or false>` | The name of the relation you want to verify and the expected result |

The following example adds multiple check verifications in every test:

```yaml
tests:
  - name: Test
    check:
      - user: user:anne
        object: organization:acme
        assertions:
          member: true
          admin: false

      - user: user:peter
        object: organization:acme
        context: 
          current_time : "2024-02-01T00:10:00Z"
        assertions:
          member: false
          admin: true
```

## Write List Objects tests

A good test covers scenarios that specify every relation for every object type that your application will need to call the [list-objects API](../getting-started/perform-list-objects.mdx) for.

The following verifies the expected results using the `list_objects` option in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> tests:

```yaml
    list_objects:
      - user: user:anne
        type: organization
        assertions:
            member: 
                - organization:acme
            admin: []
              
      - user: user:peter
        type: organization
        context: 
          current_time : "2024-02-01T00:10:00Z"

        assertions:
            member: []
            admin: 
                - organization:acme

```
The example above checks that `user:anne` has access to the `organization:acme` as a member and is not an admin of any organization. It also checks that `user:peter`, given the current time is February 1st 2024, 0:10 AM, is not related to any organization as a member, but is related to `organization:acme` as an admin.

## Write List Users tests

List users tests verify the results of the [list-users API](../getting-started/perform-list-users.mdx) to validate the users who or do not have access to an object

Each list users verification has the following structure:

| Object  | Description |
| -------- | -------- | 
|`object` | The object to list users for |
|`user_filter` | Specifies the type or userset to filter with, this must only contain one entry |
|`user_filter.type` | The specific type of results to return with response |
|`user_filter.relation` | The specific relation of results to return with response. Specify to return usersets (optional) |
|`context` | A set of tests for contextual parameters used to evaluate [conditions](./conditions.mdx)|
|`assertions` | A list of assertions to make |
|`<relation>` | The name of the relation you want to verify |
|`<relation>.users` | The users who should have the stated relation to the object |

In order to simplify test writing, the following syntax is supported for the various object types included in `users` from the API response:

* `<type>:<id>` to represent a userset that is a user
* `<type>:<id>#<relation>` to represent a userset that is a relation on a type
* `<type>:*` to represent a userset that is a type bound public access for a type

The following is an example of using the `list_users` option in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> tests:

```yaml
    list_users:
      - object: organization:acme
        user_filter:
          - type: user
        context: 
          current_time : "2024-02-02T00:10:00Z"
        assertions:
            member:
              users:
                - user:anne
            admin: 
              users: []

```
The example above checks that the `organization:acme`, given the current time is February 2nd 2024, it has 'user:anne' as a `member`, nobody as an `admin`. If we tried with current time being February 1st 2024, then `user:peter` would be listed as an `admin`

## Testing with Modular Models

If you are using [Modular Models](./modular-models.mdx), you need to use the `fga.mod` as the `model_file`. 

You can define tests for each model in separate `.fga.yaml` files, all of which should reference the common `fga.mod` model. Shared relationship tuples can be placed in a separate file and included using the `tuple_file` option. If needed, you can split tuples across multiple shared files and include them with the `tuple_files` option. Additionally, each `.fga.yaml` file can include module-specific tuples inline.

## Running tests

Tests are run using the `model test` CLI command. For instructions on installing the OpenFGA CLI, visit the [OpenFGA CLI Github repository](https://github.com/openfga/cli).

```shell
fga model test --tests <filename>.fga.yaml
```

When all tests pass, a summary with the number of tests passed is displayed. When a test fails, a line for every test is displayed.

```shell
$ fga model test --tests docs.fga.yaml
# Test Summary #
Tests 2/2 passing
Checks 4/4 passing
ListObjects 4/4 passing

$ fga model test --tests docs.fga.yaml
(FAILING) : ListUsers(1/2 passing)
ⅹ ListUsers(object={Type:organization Id:acme},relation=member,user_filter={Type:user Relation:<nil>}, context:&map[current_time:2024-02-02T00:10:00Z]): expected={Users:[user:ann]}, got={Users:[user:anne]}
---
# Test Summary #
Tests 1/2 passing
Checks 4/4 passing
ListObjects 4/4 passing
```

## Running tests using GitHub Actions

Use the [OpenFGA Model Testing Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/openfga-model-testing-action) to run tests from CI/CD flows in GitHub.

Set the path to the `.fga.yaml` file as the `store-file-path` parameter when configuring the action:

```yaml
name: Test Action

on:
  workflow_dispatch:
  pull_request:
    branches:
      - main

jobs:
  test:
    name: Run test
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout Project
        uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - name: Run Test
        uses: openfga/action-openfga-test@v0.1.0
        with:
          store-file-path: ./example/model.fga.yaml

```

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Check the following sections for more on how to learn how to write tests."
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: 'Use the FGA CLI ',
      description: 'Learn how to use the FGA CLI.',
      link: '../getting-started/cli',
      id:  '../getting-started/cli.mdx',
    },
    {
      title: 'Super Admin Example ',
      description: 'Define a model and tests for modeling a super-admin role.',
      link: 'https://github.com/openfga/sample-stores/blob/main/stores/superadmin/store.fga.yaml'
    }, 
    {
      title: 'Banking Example ',
      description: 'Define a model and tests for banking application.',
      link: 'https://github.com/openfga/sample-stores/blob/main/stores/banking/store.fga.yaml'
    },
    {
      title: 'Entitlements Example ',
      description: 'Define a model and tests for B2B application entitlements.',
      link: 'https://github.com/openfga/sample-stores/blob/main/stores/advanced-entitlements/store.fga.yaml'
    }
  ]}
/>
