docs/content/modeling/user-groups.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 6
slug: /modeling/user-groups
---

import {
  AuthzModelSnippetViewer,
  CardBox,
  CheckRequestViewer,
  DocumentationNotice,
  Playground,
  ProductConcept,
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  RelatedSection,
  WriteRequestViewer,
} from '@components/Docs';

# User Groups

<DocumentationNotice />

In this guide you will learn how to add users to groups and grant groups access to an <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="object" /> using <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ProductLink}/>.

<CardBox title="When to use" appearance="filled" description=<div>

Adding a relationship tuple specifying that a group has a relation to an object is helpful in cases where you want to encompass a set of users with the same relation to an object. For example:

- Grant a group of `engineers` `viewer` access to `roadmap.doc`
- Create a `block_list` of `members` who can't access a `document`
- Sharing a `document` with a `team`
- Granting `viewer` access to a `photo` to `followers` only
- Making a `file` viewable for all `users` within an `organization`
- Restricting access from or to `users` in a certain `locale`

</div> />

## Before you start

In order to understand this guide correctly you must be familiar with some <ProductConcept /> and know how to develop the things that we will list below.

<details>
<summary>

Assume that you have the following <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-authorization-model" linkName="authorization model" />.<br />
You have an _<ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="object" />_ called `document` that _users_ can be related to as an `editor`.

</summary>

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          editor: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            editor: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

<hr />

In addition, you will need to know the following:

### Direct Access

You need to know how to create an authorization model and create a relationship tuple to grant a user access to an object. [Learn more →](./direct-access.mdx)

### <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> Concepts

- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="Type" />: a class of objects that have similar characteristics
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="User" />: an entity in the system that can be related to an object
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relation" linkName="Relation" />: is a string defined in the type definition of an authorization model that defines the possibility of a relationship between an object of the same type as the type definition and a user in the system
- An <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="Object" />: represents an entity in the system. Users' relationships to it can be define through relationship tuples and the authorization model
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="Relationship Tuple" />: a grouping consisting of a user, a relation and an object stored in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>

</details>

<Playground />

## Step By Step

As we develop our application, we might encounter use cases where a group of users have a certain role or permission on an object. For example, `members` of a certain `team` might have an `editor` relation to a certain `document`.

In order to represent this in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>, we need:

1. Introduce the concept of a `team` to the authorization model
2. Add _users_ as `members` to the `team`
3. Assign the `team` members a relation to an _object_
4. Checking an individual member's access to the _object_

### 01. Introduce The Concept Of A Team To The Authorization Model

We need to define the _<ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="object" />_ `team` in our authorization model. In our use case, a `team` can have `member`s, so we make the following changes to our authorization model:

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          editor: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            member: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'team', relation: 'member' }] },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'team',
        relations: {
          member: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            member: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

### 02. Add Users As Members To The Team

We can now assign _<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="users" />_ as `member`s of `team`s. Let's create a new _<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="relationship tuple" />_ that states **alice is a member of team:writers**.

<WriteRequestViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: 'user:alice',
      relation: 'member',
      object: 'team:writers',
    },
  ]}
/>

### 03. Assign The Team Members A Relation To An Object

To represent groups we use the `type:object_id#relation` format, which represents the set of users related to the `type:object_id` as a certain relation. For example, `team:writers#members` is used to represent the set of users related to the **team:writers** _object_ as `member`s.

In order to assign `member`s of a `team` a relation to a `document`, we can create the following _relationship tuple_ that states that **members of team:writers are editors of document:meeting_notes.doc**.

<WriteRequestViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      _description: "Set of users related to 'team:writers' as 'member'",
      user: 'team:writers#member',
      relation: 'editor',
      object: 'document:meeting_notes.doc',
    },
  ]}
/>

### 04. Checking An Individual Member's Access To An Object

Now that we have:

- a relationship tuple indicating that **alice** is an `member` of **team:writers**
- a relationship tuple indicating that **members of team:writers are editors of document:meeting_notes.doc**

This means that if we \*<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-check-request" linkName="check" />**\*is alice an editor of document:meeting_notes.doc**? We would get the following:

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:alice'} relation={'editor'} object={'document:meeting_notes.doc'} allowed={true} />

The chain of resolution becomes:

- **alice** is `member` of **team:writers**
- `member`s of **team:writers** are `editor`s of **document:meeting_notes**
- therefore, **alice** is `editor` of **document:meeting_notes**

:::caution
**Note:** When creating relationship tuples for <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> make sure to use unique ids for each object and user within your application domain. We're using first names and simple ids to just illustrate an easy-to-follow example.
:::

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Check the following sections for more on how user groups can be used."
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: 'Managing Group Membership',
      description: 'Learn how to add and remove users from groups',
      link: '../interacting/managing-group-membership',
      id: '../interacting/managing-group-membership.mdx',
    },
    {
      title: 'Modeling Google Drive',
      description: 'See how User Groups can be used to share documents within a domain in the Google Drive use-case.',
      link: './advanced/gdrive#02-organization-permissions',
      id: './advanced/gdrive.mdx#02-organization-permissions',
    },
    {
      title: 'Modeling GitHub',
      description: 'Granting teams permissions to a repo in the GitHub use-case.',
      link: './advanced/github#02-permissions-for-teams-in-an-org',
      id: './advanced/github.mdx#02-permissions-for-teams-in-an-org',
    },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

fix: add description for pages where the first line uses JS component
Allow correct description to be rendered for snippets

Close https://github.com/openfga/openfga.dev/issues/268

docs/content/modeling/user-groups.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 6
slug: /modeling/user-groups
description: Add users to groups and grant groups access to an object.
---

import {
  AuthzModelSnippetViewer,
  CardBox,
  CheckRequestViewer,
  DocumentationNotice,
  Playground,
  ProductConcept,
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  RelatedSection,
  WriteRequestViewer,
} from '@components/Docs';

# User Groups

<DocumentationNotice />

In this guide you will learn how to add users to groups and grant groups access to an <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="object" /> using <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ProductLink}/>.

<CardBox title="When to use" appearance="filled" description=<div>

Adding a relationship tuple specifying that a group has a relation to an object is helpful in cases where you want to encompass a set of users with the same relation to an object. For example:

- Grant a group of `engineers` `viewer` access to `roadmap.doc`
- Create a `block_list` of `members` who can't access a `document`
- Sharing a `document` with a `team`
- Granting `viewer` access to a `photo` to `followers` only
- Making a `file` viewable for all `users` within an `organization`
- Restricting access from or to `users` in a certain `locale`

</div> />

## Before you start

In order to understand this guide correctly you must be familiar with some <ProductConcept /> and know how to develop the things that we will list below.

<details>
<summary>

Assume that you have the following <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-authorization-model" linkName="authorization model" />.<br />
You have an _<ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="object" />_ called `document` that _users_ can be related to as an `editor`.

</summary>

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          editor: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            editor: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

<hr />

In addition, you will need to know the following:

### Direct Access

You need to know how to create an authorization model and create a relationship tuple to grant a user access to an object. [Learn more →](./direct-access.mdx)

### <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> Concepts

- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="Type" />: a class of objects that have similar characteristics
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="User" />: an entity in the system that can be related to an object
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relation" linkName="Relation" />: is a string defined in the type definition of an authorization model that defines the possibility of a relationship between an object of the same type as the type definition and a user in the system
- An <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="Object" />: represents an entity in the system. Users' relationships to it can be define through relationship tuples and the authorization model
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="Relationship Tuple" />: a grouping consisting of a user, a relation and an object stored in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>

</details>

<Playground />

## Step By Step

As we develop our application, we might encounter use cases where a group of users have a certain role or permission on an object. For example, `members` of a certain `team` might have an `editor` relation to a certain `document`.

In order to represent this in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>, we need:

1. Introduce the concept of a `team` to the authorization model
2. Add _users_ as `members` to the `team`
3. Assign the `team` members a relation to an _object_
4. Checking an individual member's access to the _object_

### 01. Introduce The Concept Of A Team To The Authorization Model

We need to define the _<ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="object" />_ `team` in our authorization model. In our use case, a `team` can have `member`s, so we make the following changes to our authorization model:

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          editor: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            member: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'team', relation: 'member' }] },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'team',
        relations: {
          member: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            member: { directly_related_user_types: [{ type: 'user' }] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

### 02. Add Users As Members To The Team

We can now assign _<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="users" />_ as `member`s of `team`s. Let's create a new _<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="relationship tuple" />_ that states **alice is a member of team:writers**.

<WriteRequestViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      user: 'user:alice',
      relation: 'member',
      object: 'team:writers',
    },
  ]}
/>

### 03. Assign The Team Members A Relation To An Object

To represent groups we use the `type:object_id#relation` format, which represents the set of users related to the `type:object_id` as a certain relation. For example, `team:writers#members` is used to represent the set of users related to the **team:writers** _object_ as `member`s.

In order to assign `member`s of a `team` a relation to a `document`, we can create the following _relationship tuple_ that states that **members of team:writers are editors of document:meeting_notes.doc**.

<WriteRequestViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      _description: "Set of users related to 'team:writers' as 'member'",
      user: 'team:writers#member',
      relation: 'editor',
      object: 'document:meeting_notes.doc',
    },
  ]}
/>

### 04. Checking An Individual Member's Access To An Object

Now that we have:

- a relationship tuple indicating that **alice** is an `member` of **team:writers**
- a relationship tuple indicating that **members of team:writers are editors of document:meeting_notes.doc**

This means that if we \*<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-check-request" linkName="check" />**\*is alice an editor of document:meeting_notes.doc**? We would get the following:

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:alice'} relation={'editor'} object={'document:meeting_notes.doc'} allowed={true} />

The chain of resolution becomes:

- **alice** is `member` of **team:writers**
- `member`s of **team:writers** are `editor`s of **document:meeting_notes**
- therefore, **alice** is `editor` of **document:meeting_notes**

:::caution
**Note:** When creating relationship tuples for <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> make sure to use unique ids for each object and user within your application domain. We're using first names and simple ids to just illustrate an easy-to-follow example.
:::

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Check the following sections for more on how user groups can be used."
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: 'Managing Group Membership',
      description: 'Learn how to add and remove users from groups',
      link: '../interacting/managing-group-membership',
      id: '../interacting/managing-group-membership.mdx',
    },
    {
      title: 'Modeling Google Drive',
      description: 'See how User Groups can be used to share documents within a domain in the Google Drive use-case.',
      link: './advanced/gdrive#02-organization-permissions',
      id: './advanced/gdrive.mdx#02-organization-permissions',
    },
    {
      title: 'Modeling GitHub',
      description: 'Granting teams permissions to a repo in the GitHub use-case.',
      link: './advanced/github#02-permissions-for-teams-in-an-org',
      id: './advanced/github.mdx#02-permissions-for-teams-in-an-org',
    },
  ]}
/>
