docs/content/modeling/building-blocks/object-to-object-relationships.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /modeling/building-blocks/object-to-object-relationships
description: Modeling relationships between objects (e.g. folder parent of a document)
---

import {
  AuthzModelSnippetViewer,
  CardBox,
  CheckRequestViewer,
  DocumentationNotice,
  Playground,
  ProductConcept,
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  RelatedSection,
  WriteRequestViewer,
} from '@components/Docs';

# Object to Object Relationships

<DocumentationNotice />

In this guide you'll learn how to model your application with <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="objects" /> that are not specifically tied to a user. For example, a `folder` is a `parent` of a `document`.

<CardBox title="When to use" appearance="filled" description=<div>

This design pattern is helpful in the case where there are relationships between different objects. With <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.LongForm}/>, so long as both objects are in a type defined in the <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-authorization-model" linkName="authorization model" />, relationship tuples can be added to indicate a relationship between them.

For example:

- `communities` can contain `channels`
- `channels` can contain `posts`
- `channels` can contain `threads`
- `threads` can contain `posts`
- `bookshelf` can have `books`
- `trips` can have `bookings`
- `account` can contain `transactions`
- `buildings` can have `doors`

</div> />

## Before You Start

To better follow this guide, make sure you're familiar with some <ProductConcept /> and know how to develop the things listed below.

<details>
<summary>

You will start with the _<ProductConcept section="what-is-an-authorization-model" linkName="authorization model" />_ below, it represents a `document` _<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="type" />_ that can have users **<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relation" linkName="related" />** as `editor`, and `folder` type that can have users related as `viewer`.

</summary>

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          editor: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            editor: { directly_related_user_types: [{type: 'user'}] },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'folder',
        relations: {
          viewer: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            viewer: { directly_related_user_types: [{type: 'user'}] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

<hr />

In addition, you will need to know the following:

### Modeling User Groups

You need to know how to add users to groups and grant groups access to resources. [Learn more →](../user-groups.mdx)

### <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> Concepts

- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="Type" />: a class of objects that have similar characteristics
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="User" />: an entity in the system that can be related to an object
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relation" linkName="Relation" />: is a string defined in the type definition of an authorization model that defines the possibility of a relationship between an object of the same type as the type definition and a user in the system
- An <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="Object" />: represents an entity in the system. Users' relationships to it can be define through relationship tuples and the authorization model
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="Relationship Tuple" />: a grouping consisting of a user, a relation and an object stored in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>

</details>

<Playground />

## Step By Step

### 01. Create Parent Relations In Document

To represent that a `folder` can be a `parent` of a `document`, we first need to modify our `document` <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type-definition" linkName="type definition" /> to allow a `parent` <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relation" linkName="relation" />.

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          // allow others to have 'parent' relation to 'document'
          parent: {
            this: {},
          },
          editor: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            parent: { directly_related_user_types: [{type: 'folder'}] },
            editor: { directly_related_user_types: [{type: 'user'}] },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'folder',
        relations: {
          viewer: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            viewer: { directly_related_user_types: [{type: 'user'}] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

### 02. Add Parent Relationship Tuples

Once the type definition is updated, we can now create the <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship" linkName="relationship" /> between a `folder` as a `parent` of a `document`. To do this, we will create a new **<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="relationship tuple" />** that describes: **folder:budgets** is a `parent` of **document:may_budget.doc**. In <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.LongForm}/>, <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="users" /> in the relationship tuples can not only be IDs, but also other objects in the form of `type:object_id`.

<WriteRequestViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      _description: 'The user in this case is another object where the type is `folder` and the object_id is `budgets`',
      user: 'folder:budgets',
      relation: 'parent',
      object: 'document:may_budget.doc',
    },
  ]}
/>

### 03. Check That Parent Folders Have Permissions

Once that relationship tuple is added to <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>, we can <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-check-request" linkName="check" /> if the relationship is valid by asking the following: **"is folder:budgets a parent of document:may_budget.doc?"**

<CheckRequestViewer user={'folder:budgets'} relation={'parent'} object={'document:may_budget.doc'} allowed={true} />

It is important to note that the current authorization model does not imply inheritance of permissions. Even though **folder:budgets** is a `parent` of **document:may_budget.doc**, **it does not inherit the `editor` relation from `parent` to `document`.** Meaning `editors` on **folder:budgets** are not `editors` on **document:may_budget.doc**. Further configuration changes are needed to indicate that and will be tackled in a later guide.

:::caution
**Note:** When creating relationship tuples for <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> make sure to use unique ids for each object and user within your application domain. We are using first names and simple ids to just illustrate an easy-to-follow example.
:::

## Advanced Object to Object Relationships

Object to object can be used for more advanced use case, such as [entitlements](../advanced/entitlements.mdx). An example use case is to allow subscribers to be entitled to different plans.

### 01. Create Authorization Model With Object To Object Relationships

To do this, the authorization model will have two <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="types" /> - feature and plan.

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'feature',
        relations: {
          associated_plan: {
            this: {},
          },
          access: {
            union: {
              child: [
                {
                  this: {},
                },
                {
                  tupleToUserset: {
                    tupleset: {
                      relation: 'associated_plan',
                    },
                    computedUserset: {
                      relation: 'subscriber_member',
                    },
                  },
                },
              ],
            },
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            associated_plan: { directly_related_user_types: [{type: 'plan'}] },
            access: { directly_related_user_types: [{type: 'user'}] },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'plan',
        relations: {
          subscriber_member: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            subscriber_member: { directly_related_user_types: [{type: 'user'}] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

Type `feature` has two relations, associated_plan and access. Relation `associated_plan` allows associating plans with features while `access` defines who can access the feature. In our case, the access can be achieved either from

- <ProductConcept section="what-are-direct-and-implied-relationships" linkName="direct relationship" /> via  [direct relationship type restrictions](../../configuration-language.mdx#the-direct-relationship-type-restrictions).
  or `this`
- object to object relationship where a user can access because it is a subscriber_member of a particular plan AND that plan is associated with the feature.

### 02. Adding Relationship Tuples

To realize the relationship, we will need to add the following relationship tuples.

<WriteRequestViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      _description: 'make anne as subscriber_member for plan:advanced',
      user: 'user:anne',
      relation: 'subscriber_member',
      object: 'plan:advanced',
    },
    {
      _description: 'The advanced plan is associated with the data preview feature',
      user: 'plan:advanced',
      relation: 'associated_plan',
      object: 'feature:data_preview',
    },
  ]}
/>

### 03. Check To See If Access Is Allowed Without Direct Relationship

To validate that the authorization model and relationship tuples are correct, we can ask the question:

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:anne'} relation={'access'} object={'feature:data_preview'} allowed={true} />

We see that `anne` is allowed to `access` `feature:data_preview` without requiring direct relationship.

### 04. Disassociating Plan From Feature

At any point in time, `plan:advanced` may be disassociated from `feature:data_preview`.

<WriteRequestViewer
  deleteRelationshipTuples={[
    {
      _description: 'Remove advanced plan from data preview feature',
      user: 'plan:advanced',
      relation: 'associated_plan',
      object: 'feature:data_preview',
    },
  ]}
/>

When this is the case, `anne` will no longer have `access` to `feature:data_preview` even though she is still a `subscriber_member` of `plan:advanced`.

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:anne'} relation={'access'} object={'feature:data_preview'} allowed={false} />
<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:anne'} relation={'subscriber_member'} object={'plan:advanced'} allowed={true} />

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Check the following sections for more on how object-to-object relationships can be used."
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: 'Advanced Modeling Patterns: Entitlements',
      description: 'Learn how to model entitlement access patterns.',
      link: '../advanced/entitlements',
      id: '../advanced/entitlements.mdx',
    },
    {
      title: 'Modeling Parent-Child Relationships',
      description: 'Learn how to model parent and child relationships.',
      link: '../parent-child',
      id: '../parent-child.mdx',
    },
    {
      title: 'Modeling User Groups',
      description: 'Learn how to model user groups.',
      link: '../user-groups',
      id: '../user-groups.mdx',
    },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

feat: add explanation of feature vs plan when used in entitlement

docs/content/modeling/building-blocks/object-to-object-relationships.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /modeling/building-blocks/object-to-object-relationships
description: Modeling relationships between objects (e.g. folder parent of a document)
---

import {
  AuthzModelSnippetViewer,
  CardBox,
  CheckRequestViewer,
  DocumentationNotice,
  Playground,
  ProductConcept,
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  RelatedSection,
  WriteRequestViewer,
} from '@components/Docs';

# Object to Object Relationships

<DocumentationNotice />

In this guide you'll learn how to model your application with <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="objects" /> that are not specifically tied to a user. For example, a `folder` is a `parent` of a `document`.

<CardBox title="When to use" appearance="filled" description=<div>

This design pattern is helpful in the case where there are relationships between different objects. With <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.LongForm}/>, so long as both objects are in a type defined in the <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-authorization-model" linkName="authorization model" />, relationship tuples can be added to indicate a relationship between them.

For example:

- `communities` can contain `channels`
- `channels` can contain `posts`
- `channels` can contain `threads`
- `threads` can contain `posts`
- `bookshelf` can have `books`
- `trips` can have `bookings`
- `account` can contain `transactions`
- `buildings` can have `doors`

</div> />

## Before You Start

To better follow this guide, make sure you're familiar with some <ProductConcept /> and know how to develop the things listed below.

<details>
<summary>

You will start with the _<ProductConcept section="what-is-an-authorization-model" linkName="authorization model" />_ below, it represents a `document` _<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="type" />_ that can have users **<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relation" linkName="related" />** as `editor`, and `folder` type that can have users related as `viewer`.

</summary>

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          editor: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            editor: { directly_related_user_types: [{type: 'user'}] },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'folder',
        relations: {
          viewer: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            viewer: { directly_related_user_types: [{type: 'user'}] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

<hr />

In addition, you will need to know the following:

### Modeling User Groups

You need to know how to add users to groups and grant groups access to resources. [Learn more →](../user-groups.mdx)

### <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> Concepts

- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="Type" />: a class of objects that have similar characteristics
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="User" />: an entity in the system that can be related to an object
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relation" linkName="Relation" />: is a string defined in the type definition of an authorization model that defines the possibility of a relationship between an object of the same type as the type definition and a user in the system
- An <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="Object" />: represents an entity in the system. Users' relationships to it can be define through relationship tuples and the authorization model
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="Relationship Tuple" />: a grouping consisting of a user, a relation and an object stored in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>

</details>

<Playground />

## Step By Step

### 01. Create Parent Relations In Document

To represent that a `folder` can be a `parent` of a `document`, we first need to modify our `document` <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type-definition" linkName="type definition" /> to allow a `parent` <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relation" linkName="relation" />.

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          // allow others to have 'parent' relation to 'document'
          parent: {
            this: {},
          },
          editor: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            parent: { directly_related_user_types: [{type: 'folder'}] },
            editor: { directly_related_user_types: [{type: 'user'}] },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'folder',
        relations: {
          viewer: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            viewer: { directly_related_user_types: [{type: 'user'}] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

### 02. Add Parent Relationship Tuples

Once the type definition is updated, we can now create the <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship" linkName="relationship" /> between a `folder` as a `parent` of a `document`. To do this, we will create a new **<ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="relationship tuple" />** that describes: **folder:budgets** is a `parent` of **document:may_budget.doc**. In <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.LongForm}/>, <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="users" /> in the relationship tuples can not only be IDs, but also other objects in the form of `type:object_id`.

<WriteRequestViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      _description: 'The user in this case is another object where the type is `folder` and the object_id is `budgets`',
      user: 'folder:budgets',
      relation: 'parent',
      object: 'document:may_budget.doc',
    },
  ]}
/>

### 03. Check That Parent Folders Have Permissions

Once that relationship tuple is added to <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>, we can <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-check-request" linkName="check" /> if the relationship is valid by asking the following: **"is folder:budgets a parent of document:may_budget.doc?"**

<CheckRequestViewer user={'folder:budgets'} relation={'parent'} object={'document:may_budget.doc'} allowed={true} />

It is important to note that the current authorization model does not imply inheritance of permissions. Even though **folder:budgets** is a `parent` of **document:may_budget.doc**, **it does not inherit the `editor` relation from `parent` to `document`.** Meaning `editors` on **folder:budgets** are not `editors` on **document:may_budget.doc**. Further configuration changes are needed to indicate that and will be tackled in a later guide.

:::caution
**Note:** When creating relationship tuples for <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> make sure to use unique ids for each object and user within your application domain. We are using first names and simple ids to just illustrate an easy-to-follow example.
:::

## Advanced Object to Object Relationships

Object to object can be used for more advanced use case, such as [entitlements](../advanced/entitlements.mdx). An example use case is to allow subscribers to be entitled to different plans.

### 01. Create Authorization Model With Object To Object Relationships

To do this, the authorization model will have two <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="types" /> - feature and plan.

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    schema_version: '1.1',
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'user',
      },
      {
        type: 'feature',
        relations: {
          associated_plan: {
            this: {},
          },
          access: {
            union: {
              child: [
                {
                  this: {},
                },
                {
                  tupleToUserset: {
                    tupleset: {
                      relation: 'associated_plan',
                    },
                    computedUserset: {
                      relation: 'subscriber_member',
                    },
                  },
                },
              ],
            },
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            associated_plan: { directly_related_user_types: [{type: 'plan'}] },
            access: { directly_related_user_types: [{type: 'user'}] },
          },
        },
      },
      {
        type: 'plan',
        relations: {
          subscriber_member: {
            this: {},
          },
        },
        metadata: {
          relations: {
            subscriber_member: { directly_related_user_types: [{type: 'user'}] },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

Type `feature` has two relations, associated_plan and access. Relation `associated_plan` allows associating plans with features while `access` defines who can access the feature. In our case, the access can be achieved either from

- <ProductConcept section="what-are-direct-and-implied-relationships" linkName="direct relationship" /> via  [direct relationship type restrictions](../../configuration-language.mdx#the-direct-relationship-type-restrictions).
  or `this`
- object to object relationship where a user can access because it is a subscriber_member of a particular plan AND that plan is associated with the feature.

Here, we define `plan` as the user of object `feature` with relationship `associated_plan` rather than defining `feature` as the user of object `plan` with relationship `feature`. The reason we choose the former is that we want to describe our system in the following [plain language](../getting-started.mdx#write-it-in-plain-language):

<CardBox monoFontChildren appearance='filled'>

- A user can access a feature in a plan if they are a subscriber member of a plan that is the associated plan of a feature.

</CardBox>

This will give us a flow of user->organization->plan->feature and allows us to answer the question of whether user can access a feature rather than whether user is subscriber of a plan.

### 02. Adding Relationship Tuples

To realize the relationship, we will need to add the following relationship tuples.

<WriteRequestViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      _description: 'make anne as subscriber_member for plan:advanced',
      user: 'user:anne',
      relation: 'subscriber_member',
      object: 'plan:advanced',
    },
    {
      _description: 'The advanced plan is associated with the data preview feature',
      user: 'plan:advanced',
      relation: 'associated_plan',
      object: 'feature:data_preview',
    },
  ]}
/>

### 03. Check To See If Access Is Allowed Without Direct Relationship

To validate that the authorization model and relationship tuples are correct, we can ask the question:

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:anne'} relation={'access'} object={'feature:data_preview'} allowed={true} />

We see that `anne` is allowed to `access` `feature:data_preview` without requiring direct relationship.

### 04. Disassociating Plan From Feature

At any point in time, `plan:advanced` may be disassociated from `feature:data_preview`.

<WriteRequestViewer
  deleteRelationshipTuples={[
    {
      _description: 'Remove advanced plan from data preview feature',
      user: 'plan:advanced',
      relation: 'associated_plan',
      object: 'feature:data_preview',
    },
  ]}
/>

When this is the case, `anne` will no longer have `access` to `feature:data_preview` even though she is still a `subscriber_member` of `plan:advanced`.

<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:anne'} relation={'access'} object={'feature:data_preview'} allowed={false} />
<CheckRequestViewer user={'user:anne'} relation={'subscriber_member'} object={'plan:advanced'} allowed={true} />

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Check the following sections for more on how object-to-object relationships can be used."
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: 'Advanced Modeling Patterns: Entitlements',
      description: 'Learn how to model entitlement access patterns.',
      link: '../advanced/entitlements',
      id: '../advanced/entitlements.mdx',
    },
    {
      title: 'Modeling Parent-Child Relationships',
      description: 'Learn how to model parent and child relationships.',
      link: '../parent-child',
      id: '../parent-child.mdx',
    },
    {
      title: 'Modeling User Groups',
      description: 'Learn how to model user groups.',
      link: '../user-groups',
      id: '../user-groups.mdx',
    },
  ]}
/>
