docs/content/getting-started/setup-openfga/docker-setup.mdx, before:

---
title: Docker Setup Guide
description: Setting up an OpenFGA server with Docker
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /getting-started/setup-openfga/docker
---

import {
  DocumentationNotice,
  RelatedSection,
} from "@components/Docs";
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# 🐳 Setup OpenFGA with Docker

<DocumentationNotice />

This article explains how to start your own OpenFGA server using Docker, and how to configure it.

## Step By Step

If you want to run OpenFGA locally as a Docker container, follow these steps:

1. [Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) (if not already installed).
2. Run `docker pull openfga/openfga` to get the latest docker image.
3. Run `docker run -p 8080:8080 -p 8081:8081 -p 3000:3000 openfga/openfga run`.

This will start an HTTP server and gRPC server with the default configuration options. Port 8080 is used to serve the HTTP API, 8081 is used to serve the gRPC API, and 3000 is used for the [Playground](#playground).

## Configuring The Server

You may configure the OpenFGA server with a `config.yaml` file. The `config.yaml` can be specified in either:
- `/etc/openfga`
- `$HOME/.openfga`
- `.` (i.e., the current working directory).

The OpenFGA server will search for the configuration file in the above order.

Here is a sample configuration to run OpenFGA with a Postgres database and using a preshared key for authentication:

```yaml
datastore:
  engine: postgres
  uri: postgres://user:password@localhost:5432/mydatabase
authn:
  method: preshared
  preshared:
    keys: ["key1", "key2"]
```

All possible configurations and their default values are defined in [config-schema.json](https://github.com/openfga/openfga/blob/main/.config-schema.json).

:::info Information
The OpenFGA server supports **environment variables** for configuration, and they will take priority over your configuration file.
Each variable must be prefixed with `OPENFGA_` and followed by your option in uppercase (e.g `--grpc-tls-key` becomes `OPENFGA_GRPC_TLS_KEY`).
:::

### Configuring Data Storage

OpenFGA supports multiple storage engine options, including:

- `memory` - The memory storage engine is the default, but it is not persistent (data is lost between server restarts).
- `postgres` - The Postgres storage engine requires a Postgres instance that the OpenFGA server can reach.
- `mysql` - The MySQL storage engine requires a MySQL instance that the OpenFGA server can reach, and that the connection URI specifies the query `parseTime=true`.

#### Postgres

<Tabs groupId={"installation"}>
<TabItem value={"docker"} label={"Docker"}>

Let's assume you want to run OpenFGA and Postgres in containers. The first thing we should do is create a new network as this will make communication between containers a bit simpler:

```shell
docker network create openfga
```

Start Postgres in the network you created above:

```shell
docker run -d --name postgres --network=openfga -e POSTGRES_USER=postgres -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=password postgres:14
```

You should now have Postgres running in a container in the `openfga` network. However, it will not have the tables required for running OpenFGA. You can use the `migrate` command to create the tables. Using the OpenFGA container, this will look like:

```shell
docker run --rm --network=openfga openfga/openfga migrate \
    --datastore-engine postgres \
    --datastore-uri "postgres://postgres:password@postgres:5432/postgres?sslmode=disable"
```

Finally, start OpenFGA:

```shell
docker run --name openfga --network=openfga -p 3000:3000 -p 8080:8080 -p 8081:8081 openfga/openfga run \
    --datastore-engine postgres \
    --datastore-uri 'postgres://postgres:password@postgres:5432/postgres?sslmode=disable'
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={"docker-compose"} label={"Docker Compose"}>

Copy the below code block into a local file named: `docker-compose.yaml`

```yaml
version: '3.8'

networks:
  openfga:

services:
  postgres:
    image: postgres:14
    container_name: postgres
    networks:
      - openfga
    ports:
      - "5432:5432"
    environment:
      - POSTGRES_USER=postgres
      - POSTGRES_PASSWORD=password
    healthcheck:
      test: [ "CMD-SHELL", "pg_isready -U postgres" ]
      interval: 5s
      timeout: 5s
      retries: 5

  migrate:
    depends_on:
      postgres:
        condition: service_healthy
    image: openfga/openfga:latest
    container_name: migrate
    command: migrate
    environment:
      - OPENFGA_DATASTORE_ENGINE=postgres
      - OPENFGA_DATASTORE_URI=postgres://postgres:password@postgres:5432/postgres?sslmode=disable
    networks:
      - openfga

  openfga:
    depends_on:
      migrate:
        condition: service_completed_successfully
    image: openfga/openfga:latest
    container_name: openfga
    environment:
      - OPENFGA_DATASTORE_ENGINE=postgres
      - OPENFGA_DATASTORE_URI=postgres://postgres:password@postgres:5432/postgres?sslmode=disable
      - OPENFGA_LOG_FORMAT=json
    command: run
    networks:
      - openfga
    ports:
      # Needed for the http server
      - "8080:8080"
      # Needed for the grpc server (if used)
      - "8081:8081"
      # Needed for the playground (Do not enable in prod!)
      - "3000:3000"
```

In a terminal, navigate to that directory and run:
```shell
docker-compose up
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

This will start the Postgres database, run `openfga migrate` to configure the database and finally start the OpenFGA server.

Now you can try to [Create a Store](../create-store.mdx).

#### MySQL

Setting up MySQL and OpenFGA is very similar to setting up Postgres and OpenFGA.

:::info
Note that the MySQL datastore has stricter limits for the max length of some fields for tuples compared to other datastore engines, in particular:
- object type is at most 128 characters (down from 256)
- object id is at most 128 characters (down from 256)
- user is at most 256 characters (down from 512)
:::info

<Tabs groupId={"installation_mysql"}>
<TabItem value={"docker-mysql"} label={"Docker"}>
We first make a network:

```shell
docker network create openfga
```

Then, start MySQL in the network you created above:

```shell
docker run -d --name mysql --network=openfga -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=secret -e MYSQL_DATABASE=openfga mysql:8
```

You should now have MySQL running in a container in the `openfga` network. But we still have to migrate all the tables to be able to run OpenFGA. You can use the `migrate` command to create the tables. Using the OpenFGA container, this will look like:

```shell
docker run --rm --network=openfga openfga/openfga migrate \
    --datastore-engine mysql \
    --datastore-uri 'root:secret@tcp(mysql:3306)/openfga?parseTime=true'
```

Finally, start OpenFGA:

```shell
docker run --name openfga --network=openfga -p 3000:3000 -p 8080:8080 -p 8081:8081 openfga/openfga run \
    --datastore-engine mysql \
    --datastore-uri 'root:secret@tcp(mysql:3306)/openfga?parseTime=true'
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={"docker-compose-mysql"} label={"Docker Compose"}>

Copy the below code block into a local file named: `docker-compose.yaml`

```yaml
version: '3.8'

networks:
  openfga:

services:
  mysql:
    image: mysql:8
    container_name: mysql
    networks:
      - openfga
    ports:
      - "3306:3306"
    environment:
      - MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=secret
      - MYSQL_DATABASE=openfga
    healthcheck:
      test: ["CMD", 'mysqladmin', 'ping', '-h', 'localhost', '-u', 'root', '-p$$MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD' ]
      timeout: 20s
      retries: 5

  migrate:
    depends_on:
        mysql:
            condition: service_healthy
    image: openfga/openfga:latest
    container_name: migrate
    command: migrate
    environment:
      - OPENFGA_DATASTORE_ENGINE=mysql
      - OPENFGA_DATASTORE_URI=root:secret@tcp(mysql:3306)/openfga?parseTime=true
    networks:
      - openfga

  openfga:
    depends_on:
      migrate:
        condition: service_completed_successfully
    image: openfga/openfga:latest
    container_name: openfga
    environment:
      - OPENFGA_DATASTORE_ENGINE=mysql
      - OPENFGA_DATASTORE_URI=root:secret@tcp(mysql:3306)/openfga?parseTime=true
      - OPENFGA_LOG_FORMAT=json
    command: run
    networks:
      - openfga
    ports:
      # Needed for the http server
      - "8080:8080"
      # Needed for the grpc server (if used)
      - "8081:8081"
      # Needed for the playground (Do not enable in prod!)
      - "3000:3000"
```

In a terminal, navigate to that directory and run:

```shell
docker-compose up
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

This will start the MySQL database, run `openfga migrate` to configure the database and finally start the OpenFGA server.

Now you can try to [Create a Store](../create-store.mdx).

### Configuring Authentication

You can configure authentication in your OpenFGA server in three ways: no authentication (the default), pre-shared key authentication or via OIDC.

#### Pre-shared Key Authentication

If using **Pre-shared key authentication**, you will configure OpenFGA with a secret key and your application calling OpenFGA will have to set an `Authorization: Bearer <YOUR-KEY-HERE>` header. You can configure multiple keys.

:::caution Warning
If you are going to use this setup in production, you should enable HTTP TLS in your OpenFGA server. You will need to configure the TLS certificate and key.
:::

<Tabs groupId={"configuration"}>
<TabItem value={"configuration file"} label={"Configuration File"}>

Update the config.yaml file to 

```yaml
authn:
  method: preshared
  preshared:
    keys: ["key1", "key2"]
http:
  tls:
    enabled: true
    cert: /Users/myuser/key/server.crt
    key: /Users/myuser/key/server.key
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={"environment variables"} label={"Environment Variables"}>

1. Configure the authentication method to preshared: `export OPENFGA_AUTHN_METHOD=preshared`.
2. Configure the authentication keys: `export OPENFGA_AUTHN_PRESHARED_KEYS="key1,key2"`
3. Enable the HTTP TLS configuration: `export OPENFGA_HTTP_TLS_ENABLED=true`
4. Configure the HTTP TLS certificate location: `export OPENFGA_HTTP_TLS_CERT=/Users/myuser/key/server.crt`
5. Configure the HTTP TLS key location: `export OPENFGA_HTTP_TLS_KEY=/Users/myuser/key/server.key`

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={"docker"} label={"Docker"}>

To configure with pre-shared authentication and enabling TLS in http server with Docker.

1. Copy the certificate and key files to your Docker container.
2. Run with the following command:
```shell
docker run --name openfga --network=openfga -p 3000:3000 -p 8080:8080 -p 8081:8081 openfga/openfga run \
    --authn-method=preshared \
    --authn-preshared-keys="key1,key2" \
    --http-tls-enabled=true \
    --http-tls-cert="/Users/myuser/key/server.crt" \
    --http-tls-key="/Users/myuser/key/server.key"
```
</TabItem>

</Tabs>

#### OIDC

To configure with OIDC authentication, you will first need to obtain the OIDC issuer and audience from your provider.

:::caution Warning
If you are going to use this setup in production, you should enable HTTP TLS in your OpenFGA server. You will need to configure the TLS certificate and key.
:::


<Tabs groupId={"configuration"}>
<TabItem value={"configuration file"} label={"Configuration File"}>

Update the config.yaml file to 

```yaml
authn:
  method: oidc
  oidc:
    issuer: "oidc-issuer"
    audience: "oidc-audience"

http:
  tls:
    enabled: true
    cert: /Users/myuser/key/server.crt
    key: /Users/myuser/key/server.key
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={"environment variables"} label={"Environment Variables"}>

1. Configure the authentication method to preshared: `export OPENFGA_AUTHN_METHOD=oidc`.
2. Configure the authentication keys: `export OPENFGA_AUTHN_OIDC_ISSUER=oidc-issuer`
2. Configure the authentication keys: `export OPENFGA_AUTHN_OIDC_audience=oidc-audience`
3. Enable the HTTP TLS configuration: `export OPENFGA_HTTP_TLS_ENABLED=true`
4. Configure the HTTP TLS certificate location: 
`export OPENFGA_HTTP_TLS_CERT=/Users/myuser/key/server.crt`
5. Configure the HTTP TLS key location: 
`export OPENFGA_HTTP_TLS_KEY=/Users/myuser/key/server.key`

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={"docker"} label={"Docker"}>

To configure with pre-shared authentication and enabling TLS in http server with Docker.

1. Copy the certificate and key files to your docker container.
2. Run the following command

```shell
docker run --name openfga --network=openfga -p 3000:3000 -p 8080:8080 -p 8081:8081 openfga/openfga run \
    --authn-method=oidc \
    --authn-oidc-issuer="oidc-issuer" \
    --authn-oidc-audience="oidc-audience" \
    --http-tls-enabled=true \
    --http-tls-cert="/Users/myuser/key/server.crt" \
    --http-tls-key="/Users/myuser/key/server.key"
```
</TabItem>

</Tabs>

### Playground

The Playground facilitates rapid development by allowing you to visualize and model your application's authorization model(s) and manage relationship tuples with a locally running OpenFGA instance.

The Playground is enabled on port 3000 by default and accessible at http://localhost:3000/playground (if using Docker, make sure port 3000 is exposed to your local network). To disable the Playground, see [Configuring the Server](#configuring-the-server).

### Profiler (pprof)
:::caution Warning
Continuous profiling can be used in production deployments, but we recommend disabling it unless it is needed to troubleshoot specific performance or memory problems.
:::

Profiling through [`pprof`](https://github.com/google/pprof/blob/main/doc/README.md) can be enabled on the OpenFGA server by providing the `--profiler-enabled` flag. For example, in Docker:

```sh
docker run -p 8080:8080 -p 8081:8081 -p 3000:3000 -p 3001:3001 openfga/openfga run --profiler-enabled
```

If you need to serve the profiler on a different port than the default `3001`, you can do so by specifying the `--profiler-addr` flag. For example:

```sh
docker run -p 8080:8080 -p 8081:8081 -p 3000:3000 -p 3002:3002 openfga/openfga run --profiler-enabled --profiler-addr :3002
```

## Health Check

OpenFGA is configured with an HTTP health check endpoint `/healthz` and a gRPC health check `grpc.health.v1.Health/Check`, which is wired to datastore testing. Possible response values are
- UNKNOWN
- SERVING
- NOT_SERVING
- SERVICE_UNKNOWN

<Tabs groupId={"healthcheck"}>
<TabItem value={"health-curl"} label={"cURL"}>

```shell
curl -X GET $FGA_API_HOST/healthz

# {"status":"SERVING"}
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={"health-grpc"} label={"gRPC"}>

```shell
# See https://github.com/fullstorydev/grpcurl#installation
grpcurl -plaintext $FGA_API_HOST grpc.health.v1.Health/Check

# {"status":"SERVING"}
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Experimental Features
Various releases of OpenFGA may have experimental features that can be enabled by providing the `--experimentals` flag or the `experimentals` config.

```
docker run -p 8080:8080 -p 8081:8081 openfga/openfga run --experimentals="feature1, feature2"
```
or if you're using environment variables,
```
docker run -p 8080:8080 -p 8081:8081 openfga/openfga -e OPENFGA_EXPERIMENTALS="feature1, feature2" run
```

The following table enumerates the experimental flags, a description of what they do, and the versions of OpenFGA the flag is supported in:

| Name         | Description                                                        | OpenFGA Version       | Status                     |
|--------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------|----------------------------|
| otel-metrics | Enables support for exposing OpenFGA metrics through OpenTelemetry | `0.3.2 <= v < v0.3.5` | became default in `v0.3.5` |
| list-objects | Enables ListObjects API                                            | `0.2.0 <= v < v0.3.3` | became default in `v0.3.3` |


:::caution Warning
Experimental features are not guaranteed to be stable and may lead to server instabilities. It is not recommended to enable experimental features for anything other than experimentation.

Experimental feature flags are also not considered part of API compatibility and are subject to change, so please refer to each OpenFGA specific release for a list of the experimental feature flags that can be enabled for that release.
:::

## Telemetry

OpenFGA telemetry data is collected by default starting on version `v0.3.5`. The telemetry information that is captured includes Metrics, Traces, and Logs.

:::note
Please refer to the [docker-compose.yaml](https://github.com/openfga/openfga/blob/main/docker-compose.yaml) file as an example of how to collect Metrics and Tracing in OpenFGA in a Docker environment using the [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/data-collection/). This should serve as a good example that you can adjust for your specific deployment scenario.
:::

### Metrics

OpenFGA metrics are collected with the [Prometheus data format](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/data_model/) and exposed on address `0.0.0.0:2112/metrics`.

Metrics are exposed by default, but you can disable this with `--metrics-enabled=false` (or `OPENFGA_METRICS_ENABLED=false` environment variable).

To set an alternative address, you can provide the `--metrics-addr` flag (`OPENFGA_METRICS_ADDR` environment variable). For example:

```shell
openfga run --metrics-addr=0.0.0.0:2114
```

To see the request latency per endpoint of your OpenFGA deployment, you can provide the `--metrics-enable-rpc-histograms` flag (`OPENFGA_METRICS_ENABLE_RPC_HISTOGRAMS` environment variable).

### Tracing

OpenFGA traces can be collected with the [OTLP data format](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/protocol/otlp.md).

Tracing is disabled by default, but you can enable this with the `--trace-enabled=true` (`OPENFGA_TRACE_ENABLED=true` environment variable). Traces will be exported by default to address `0.0.0.0:4317`. You can change this address with the `--trace-otlp-endpoint` flag (`OPENFGA_TRACE_OTLP_ENDPOINT` environment variable).

To increase or decrease the trace sampling ratio, you can provide the `--trace-sample-ratio` flag (`OPENFGA_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATIO` env variable).

:::caution Warning
It is not recommended to sample all traces (e.g. `--trace-sample-ratio=1`). You will need to adjust your sampling ratio based on the amount of traffic your deployment receives. Higher traffic will require less sampling and lower traffic can tolerate higher sampling ratios.
:::

### Logging

OpenFGA generates structured logs by default, and it can be configured with the following flags:

- `--log-format`: sets the log format. Today we support `text` and `json` format.
- `--log-level`: sets the minimum log level (defaults to `info`). It can be set to `none` to turn off logging.

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Check the following sections for more on how to use OpenFGA."
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: 'Production Best Practices',
      description: 'Learn the best practices of running OpenFGA in a production environment',
      link: '../running-in-production',
      id: './running-in-production',
    }
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

feat(setup): document otlp connection security
Documents the configuration option for using insecure connection
for tracing.

Related: https://github.com/openfga/openfga/pull/885

docs/content/getting-started/setup-openfga/docker-setup.mdx, after:

---
title: Docker Setup Guide
description: Setting up an OpenFGA server with Docker
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /getting-started/setup-openfga/docker
---

import {
  DocumentationNotice,
  RelatedSection,
} from "@components/Docs";
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# 🐳 Setup OpenFGA with Docker

<DocumentationNotice />

This article explains how to start your own OpenFGA server using Docker, and how to configure it.

## Step By Step

If you want to run OpenFGA locally as a Docker container, follow these steps:

1. [Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) (if not already installed).
2. Run `docker pull openfga/openfga` to get the latest docker image.
3. Run `docker run -p 8080:8080 -p 8081:8081 -p 3000:3000 openfga/openfga run`.

This will start an HTTP server and gRPC server with the default configuration options. Port 8080 is used to serve the HTTP API, 8081 is used to serve the gRPC API, and 3000 is used for the [Playground](#playground).

## Configuring The Server

You may configure the OpenFGA server with a `config.yaml` file. The `config.yaml` can be specified in either:
- `/etc/openfga`
- `$HOME/.openfga`
- `.` (i.e., the current working directory).

The OpenFGA server will search for the configuration file in the above order.

Here is a sample configuration to run OpenFGA with a Postgres database and using a preshared key for authentication:

```yaml
datastore:
  engine: postgres
  uri: postgres://user:password@localhost:5432/mydatabase
authn:
  method: preshared
  preshared:
    keys: ["key1", "key2"]
```

All possible configurations and their default values are defined in [config-schema.json](https://github.com/openfga/openfga/blob/main/.config-schema.json).

:::info Information
The OpenFGA server supports **environment variables** for configuration, and they will take priority over your configuration file.
Each variable must be prefixed with `OPENFGA_` and followed by your option in uppercase (e.g `--grpc-tls-key` becomes `OPENFGA_GRPC_TLS_KEY`).
:::

### Configuring Data Storage

OpenFGA supports multiple storage engine options, including:

- `memory` - The memory storage engine is the default, but it is not persistent (data is lost between server restarts).
- `postgres` - The Postgres storage engine requires a Postgres instance that the OpenFGA server can reach.
- `mysql` - The MySQL storage engine requires a MySQL instance that the OpenFGA server can reach, and that the connection URI specifies the query `parseTime=true`.

#### Postgres

<Tabs groupId={"installation"}>
<TabItem value={"docker"} label={"Docker"}>

Let's assume you want to run OpenFGA and Postgres in containers. The first thing we should do is create a new network as this will make communication between containers a bit simpler:

```shell
docker network create openfga
```

Start Postgres in the network you created above:

```shell
docker run -d --name postgres --network=openfga -e POSTGRES_USER=postgres -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=password postgres:14
```

You should now have Postgres running in a container in the `openfga` network. However, it will not have the tables required for running OpenFGA. You can use the `migrate` command to create the tables. Using the OpenFGA container, this will look like:

```shell
docker run --rm --network=openfga openfga/openfga migrate \
    --datastore-engine postgres \
    --datastore-uri "postgres://postgres:password@postgres:5432/postgres?sslmode=disable"
```

Finally, start OpenFGA:

```shell
docker run --name openfga --network=openfga -p 3000:3000 -p 8080:8080 -p 8081:8081 openfga/openfga run \
    --datastore-engine postgres \
    --datastore-uri 'postgres://postgres:password@postgres:5432/postgres?sslmode=disable'
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={"docker-compose"} label={"Docker Compose"}>

Copy the below code block into a local file named: `docker-compose.yaml`

```yaml
version: '3.8'

networks:
  openfga:

services:
  postgres:
    image: postgres:14
    container_name: postgres
    networks:
      - openfga
    ports:
      - "5432:5432"
    environment:
      - POSTGRES_USER=postgres
      - POSTGRES_PASSWORD=password
    healthcheck:
      test: [ "CMD-SHELL", "pg_isready -U postgres" ]
      interval: 5s
      timeout: 5s
      retries: 5

  migrate:
    depends_on:
      postgres:
        condition: service_healthy
    image: openfga/openfga:latest
    container_name: migrate
    command: migrate
    environment:
      - OPENFGA_DATASTORE_ENGINE=postgres
      - OPENFGA_DATASTORE_URI=postgres://postgres:password@postgres:5432/postgres?sslmode=disable
    networks:
      - openfga

  openfga:
    depends_on:
      migrate:
        condition: service_completed_successfully
    image: openfga/openfga:latest
    container_name: openfga
    environment:
      - OPENFGA_DATASTORE_ENGINE=postgres
      - OPENFGA_DATASTORE_URI=postgres://postgres:password@postgres:5432/postgres?sslmode=disable
      - OPENFGA_LOG_FORMAT=json
    command: run
    networks:
      - openfga
    ports:
      # Needed for the http server
      - "8080:8080"
      # Needed for the grpc server (if used)
      - "8081:8081"
      # Needed for the playground (Do not enable in prod!)
      - "3000:3000"
```

In a terminal, navigate to that directory and run:
```shell
docker-compose up
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

This will start the Postgres database, run `openfga migrate` to configure the database and finally start the OpenFGA server.

Now you can try to [Create a Store](../create-store.mdx).

#### MySQL

Setting up MySQL and OpenFGA is very similar to setting up Postgres and OpenFGA.

:::info
Note that the MySQL datastore has stricter limits for the max length of some fields for tuples compared to other datastore engines, in particular:
- object type is at most 128 characters (down from 256)
- object id is at most 128 characters (down from 256)
- user is at most 256 characters (down from 512)
:::info

<Tabs groupId={"installation_mysql"}>
<TabItem value={"docker-mysql"} label={"Docker"}>
We first make a network:

```shell
docker network create openfga
```

Then, start MySQL in the network you created above:

```shell
docker run -d --name mysql --network=openfga -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=secret -e MYSQL_DATABASE=openfga mysql:8
```

You should now have MySQL running in a container in the `openfga` network. But we still have to migrate all the tables to be able to run OpenFGA. You can use the `migrate` command to create the tables. Using the OpenFGA container, this will look like:

```shell
docker run --rm --network=openfga openfga/openfga migrate \
    --datastore-engine mysql \
    --datastore-uri 'root:secret@tcp(mysql:3306)/openfga?parseTime=true'
```

Finally, start OpenFGA:

```shell
docker run --name openfga --network=openfga -p 3000:3000 -p 8080:8080 -p 8081:8081 openfga/openfga run \
    --datastore-engine mysql \
    --datastore-uri 'root:secret@tcp(mysql:3306)/openfga?parseTime=true'
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={"docker-compose-mysql"} label={"Docker Compose"}>

Copy the below code block into a local file named: `docker-compose.yaml`

```yaml
version: '3.8'

networks:
  openfga:

services:
  mysql:
    image: mysql:8
    container_name: mysql
    networks:
      - openfga
    ports:
      - "3306:3306"
    environment:
      - MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=secret
      - MYSQL_DATABASE=openfga
    healthcheck:
      test: ["CMD", 'mysqladmin', 'ping', '-h', 'localhost', '-u', 'root', '-p$$MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD' ]
      timeout: 20s
      retries: 5

  migrate:
    depends_on:
        mysql:
            condition: service_healthy
    image: openfga/openfga:latest
    container_name: migrate
    command: migrate
    environment:
      - OPENFGA_DATASTORE_ENGINE=mysql
      - OPENFGA_DATASTORE_URI=root:secret@tcp(mysql:3306)/openfga?parseTime=true
    networks:
      - openfga

  openfga:
    depends_on:
      migrate:
        condition: service_completed_successfully
    image: openfga/openfga:latest
    container_name: openfga
    environment:
      - OPENFGA_DATASTORE_ENGINE=mysql
      - OPENFGA_DATASTORE_URI=root:secret@tcp(mysql:3306)/openfga?parseTime=true
      - OPENFGA_LOG_FORMAT=json
    command: run
    networks:
      - openfga
    ports:
      # Needed for the http server
      - "8080:8080"
      # Needed for the grpc server (if used)
      - "8081:8081"
      # Needed for the playground (Do not enable in prod!)
      - "3000:3000"
```

In a terminal, navigate to that directory and run:

```shell
docker-compose up
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

This will start the MySQL database, run `openfga migrate` to configure the database and finally start the OpenFGA server.

Now you can try to [Create a Store](../create-store.mdx).

### Configuring Authentication

You can configure authentication in your OpenFGA server in three ways: no authentication (the default), pre-shared key authentication or via OIDC.

#### Pre-shared Key Authentication

If using **Pre-shared key authentication**, you will configure OpenFGA with a secret key and your application calling OpenFGA will have to set an `Authorization: Bearer <YOUR-KEY-HERE>` header. You can configure multiple keys.

:::caution Warning
If you are going to use this setup in production, you should enable HTTP TLS in your OpenFGA server. You will need to configure the TLS certificate and key.
:::

<Tabs groupId={"configuration"}>
<TabItem value={"configuration file"} label={"Configuration File"}>

Update the config.yaml file to 

```yaml
authn:
  method: preshared
  preshared:
    keys: ["key1", "key2"]
http:
  tls:
    enabled: true
    cert: /Users/myuser/key/server.crt
    key: /Users/myuser/key/server.key
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={"environment variables"} label={"Environment Variables"}>

1. Configure the authentication method to preshared: `export OPENFGA_AUTHN_METHOD=preshared`.
2. Configure the authentication keys: `export OPENFGA_AUTHN_PRESHARED_KEYS="key1,key2"`
3. Enable the HTTP TLS configuration: `export OPENFGA_HTTP_TLS_ENABLED=true`
4. Configure the HTTP TLS certificate location: `export OPENFGA_HTTP_TLS_CERT=/Users/myuser/key/server.crt`
5. Configure the HTTP TLS key location: `export OPENFGA_HTTP_TLS_KEY=/Users/myuser/key/server.key`

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={"docker"} label={"Docker"}>

To configure with pre-shared authentication and enabling TLS in http server with Docker.

1. Copy the certificate and key files to your Docker container.
2. Run with the following command:
```shell
docker run --name openfga --network=openfga -p 3000:3000 -p 8080:8080 -p 8081:8081 openfga/openfga run \
    --authn-method=preshared \
    --authn-preshared-keys="key1,key2" \
    --http-tls-enabled=true \
    --http-tls-cert="/Users/myuser/key/server.crt" \
    --http-tls-key="/Users/myuser/key/server.key"
```
</TabItem>

</Tabs>

#### OIDC

To configure with OIDC authentication, you will first need to obtain the OIDC issuer and audience from your provider.

:::caution Warning
If you are going to use this setup in production, you should enable HTTP TLS in your OpenFGA server. You will need to configure the TLS certificate and key.
:::


<Tabs groupId={"configuration"}>
<TabItem value={"configuration file"} label={"Configuration File"}>

Update the config.yaml file to 

```yaml
authn:
  method: oidc
  oidc:
    issuer: "oidc-issuer"
    audience: "oidc-audience"

http:
  tls:
    enabled: true
    cert: /Users/myuser/key/server.crt
    key: /Users/myuser/key/server.key
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={"environment variables"} label={"Environment Variables"}>

1. Configure the authentication method to preshared: `export OPENFGA_AUTHN_METHOD=oidc`.
2. Configure the authentication keys: `export OPENFGA_AUTHN_OIDC_ISSUER=oidc-issuer`
2. Configure the authentication keys: `export OPENFGA_AUTHN_OIDC_audience=oidc-audience`
3. Enable the HTTP TLS configuration: `export OPENFGA_HTTP_TLS_ENABLED=true`
4. Configure the HTTP TLS certificate location: 
`export OPENFGA_HTTP_TLS_CERT=/Users/myuser/key/server.crt`
5. Configure the HTTP TLS key location: 
`export OPENFGA_HTTP_TLS_KEY=/Users/myuser/key/server.key`

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={"docker"} label={"Docker"}>

To configure with pre-shared authentication and enabling TLS in http server with Docker.

1. Copy the certificate and key files to your docker container.
2. Run the following command

```shell
docker run --name openfga --network=openfga -p 3000:3000 -p 8080:8080 -p 8081:8081 openfga/openfga run \
    --authn-method=oidc \
    --authn-oidc-issuer="oidc-issuer" \
    --authn-oidc-audience="oidc-audience" \
    --http-tls-enabled=true \
    --http-tls-cert="/Users/myuser/key/server.crt" \
    --http-tls-key="/Users/myuser/key/server.key"
```
</TabItem>

</Tabs>

### Playground

The Playground facilitates rapid development by allowing you to visualize and model your application's authorization model(s) and manage relationship tuples with a locally running OpenFGA instance.

The Playground is enabled on port 3000 by default and accessible at http://localhost:3000/playground (if using Docker, make sure port 3000 is exposed to your local network). To disable the Playground, see [Configuring the Server](#configuring-the-server).

### Profiler (pprof)
:::caution Warning
Continuous profiling can be used in production deployments, but we recommend disabling it unless it is needed to troubleshoot specific performance or memory problems.
:::

Profiling through [`pprof`](https://github.com/google/pprof/blob/main/doc/README.md) can be enabled on the OpenFGA server by providing the `--profiler-enabled` flag. For example, in Docker:

```sh
docker run -p 8080:8080 -p 8081:8081 -p 3000:3000 -p 3001:3001 openfga/openfga run --profiler-enabled
```

If you need to serve the profiler on a different port than the default `3001`, you can do so by specifying the `--profiler-addr` flag. For example:

```sh
docker run -p 8080:8080 -p 8081:8081 -p 3000:3000 -p 3002:3002 openfga/openfga run --profiler-enabled --profiler-addr :3002
```

## Health Check

OpenFGA is configured with an HTTP health check endpoint `/healthz` and a gRPC health check `grpc.health.v1.Health/Check`, which is wired to datastore testing. Possible response values are
- UNKNOWN
- SERVING
- NOT_SERVING
- SERVICE_UNKNOWN

<Tabs groupId={"healthcheck"}>
<TabItem value={"health-curl"} label={"cURL"}>

```shell
curl -X GET $FGA_API_HOST/healthz

# {"status":"SERVING"}
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={"health-grpc"} label={"gRPC"}>

```shell
# See https://github.com/fullstorydev/grpcurl#installation
grpcurl -plaintext $FGA_API_HOST grpc.health.v1.Health/Check

# {"status":"SERVING"}
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Experimental Features
Various releases of OpenFGA may have experimental features that can be enabled by providing the `--experimentals` flag or the `experimentals` config.

```
docker run -p 8080:8080 -p 8081:8081 openfga/openfga run --experimentals="feature1, feature2"
```
or if you're using environment variables,
```
docker run -p 8080:8080 -p 8081:8081 openfga/openfga -e OPENFGA_EXPERIMENTALS="feature1, feature2" run
```

The following table enumerates the experimental flags, a description of what they do, and the versions of OpenFGA the flag is supported in:

| Name         | Description                                                        | OpenFGA Version       | Status                     |
|--------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------|----------------------------|
| otel-metrics | Enables support for exposing OpenFGA metrics through OpenTelemetry | `0.3.2 <= v < v0.3.5` | became default in `v0.3.5` |
| list-objects | Enables ListObjects API                                            | `0.2.0 <= v < v0.3.3` | became default in `v0.3.3` |


:::caution Warning
Experimental features are not guaranteed to be stable and may lead to server instabilities. It is not recommended to enable experimental features for anything other than experimentation.

Experimental feature flags are also not considered part of API compatibility and are subject to change, so please refer to each OpenFGA specific release for a list of the experimental feature flags that can be enabled for that release.
:::

## Telemetry

OpenFGA telemetry data is collected by default starting on version `v0.3.5`. The telemetry information that is captured includes Metrics, Traces, and Logs.

:::note
Please refer to the [docker-compose.yaml](https://github.com/openfga/openfga/blob/main/docker-compose.yaml) file as an example of how to collect Metrics and Tracing in OpenFGA in a Docker environment using the [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/data-collection/). This should serve as a good example that you can adjust for your specific deployment scenario.
:::

### Metrics

OpenFGA metrics are collected with the [Prometheus data format](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/data_model/) and exposed on address `0.0.0.0:2112/metrics`.

Metrics are exposed by default, but you can disable this with `--metrics-enabled=false` (or `OPENFGA_METRICS_ENABLED=false` environment variable).

To set an alternative address, you can provide the `--metrics-addr` flag (`OPENFGA_METRICS_ADDR` environment variable). For example:

```shell
openfga run --metrics-addr=0.0.0.0:2114
```

To see the request latency per endpoint of your OpenFGA deployment, you can provide the `--metrics-enable-rpc-histograms` flag (`OPENFGA_METRICS_ENABLE_RPC_HISTOGRAMS` environment variable).

### Tracing

OpenFGA traces can be collected with the [OTLP data format](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/protocol/otlp.md).

Tracing is disabled by default, but you can enable this with the `--trace-enabled=true` (`OPENFGA_TRACE_ENABLED=true` environment variable). Traces will be exported by default to address `0.0.0.0:4317`. You can change this address with the `--trace-otlp-endpoint` flag (`OPENFGA_TRACE_OTLP_ENDPOINT` environment variable).

To increase or decrease the trace sampling ratio, you can provide the `--trace-sample-ratio` flag (`OPENFGA_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATIO` env variable).

Tracing by default uses a secure connection. You can disable it using `--trace-otlp-insecure` flag or the standard otlp environment variable `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_INSECURE`.

:::caution Warning
It is not recommended to sample all traces (e.g. `--trace-sample-ratio=1`). You will need to adjust your sampling ratio based on the amount of traffic your deployment receives. Higher traffic will require less sampling and lower traffic can tolerate higher sampling ratios.
:::

### Logging

OpenFGA generates structured logs by default, and it can be configured with the following flags:

- `--log-format`: sets the log format. Today we support `text` and `json` format.
- `--log-level`: sets the minimum log level (defaults to `info`). It can be set to `none` to turn off logging.

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Check the following sections for more on how to use OpenFGA."
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: 'Production Best Practices',
      description: 'Learn the best practices of running OpenFGA in a production environment',
      link: '../running-in-production',
      id: './running-in-production',
    }
  ]}
/>
