docs/content/best-practices/modeling-roles.mdx, before:

---
title: Modeling roles
slug: /best-practices/modeling-roles
description: Describe different ways you can model roles with FGA
sidebar_position: 1
---
import {
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  RelatedSection,
} from '@components/Docs';

# Modeling Roles

<ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> allows modeling roles in multiple ways. Roles are a common way to group users and assign permissions to those groups. They can be used to simplify permission management, especially in larger systems where users may have similar access needs.

In this guide, we'll explore common approaches to modeling roles with <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>.

## When to Use Each Approach

Before diving into implementation details, here's a quick guide to help you choose the right approach:

| Approach | Best For | Complexity | Flexibility |
|----------|----------|------------|-------------|
| **Relations as Roles** | Static, predefined roles | Low | Low |
| **Simple Dynamic Roles** | User-defined roles at org level | Medium | Medium |
| **Role Bindings** | Instance-specific role assignments | High | High |

## Approach 1: Roles as Relations

The simplest way to implement roles is to use directly assignable relations. They work well for roles that always exist and can be defined at development-time. Adding relations is very easy, and you do not need to add roles very frequently. If roles are static, this is always the preferred approach.

### Example: Organization Admin Role

In the model below we define an `admin` role at the organization level. Admins can edit billing details and create projects.

```dsl.openfga
model
  schema 1.1

type user

type organization
  relations
    define admin: [user]
    define can_create_project: admin
    define can_edit_billing_details: admin
```

### Adding Users to Roles

To add users to the admin role, create a tuple like:

```yaml
- user: user:anne
  relation: admin
  object: organization:acme
```

### Extending with Additional Roles

If later you need to add a `project_admin` role with permissions to view/edit projects, the model evolves to:

```dsl.openfga
model
  schema 1.1

type user

type organization
  relations
    define admin: [user]
    define project_admin: [user]  # new role

    # existing permissions
    define can_edit_billing_details: admin 
    define can_create_project: admin or project_admin

    # new permissions for project admins
    define can_edit_project: admin or project_admin
    define can_view_project: admin or project_admin
```

### Pros and Cons

**✅ Advantages:**
- Simple to implement and understand
- Fast evaluation performance
- Clear authorization policies
- No additional tuples needed when adding permissions

**❌ Disadvantages:**
- Roles must be predefined in the model
- Not suitable for user-defined roles

---

## Approach 2: Simple Dynamic Roles

Many applications require the flexibility for end-users to define their own custom roles, in addition to any pre-defined roles. This approach enables organizations to tailor permissions to their specific needs.

### Example: Custom Project Admin Role

With the following model, your application can support both static roles and user-defined roles:

```dsl.openfga
model
  schema 1.1

type user

type role
  relations
    define assignee: [user]

type organization
  relations
    define admin: [user]  # static role

    # permissions can be assigned to custom roles or static roles
    define can_create_project: [role#assignee] or admin 
    define can_edit_project: [role#assignee] or admin 
```

### Setting Up Custom Roles

1. **Define role permissions** by creating tuples that grant the role specific permissions:

```yaml
- user: role:acme-project-admin#assignee
  relation: can_create_project
  object: organization:acme

- user: role:acme-project-admin#assignee
  relation: can_edit_project
  object: organization:acme
```

2. **Assign users to the role**:

```yaml
- user: user:anne
  relation: assignee
  object: role:acme-project-admin
```

### Adding New Permissions

When you add new permissions to your model, existing roles don't automatically receive them:

```dsl.openfga
model
  schema 1.1

type user

type role
  relations
    define assignee: [user]

type organization
  relations
    define admin: [user]
    define can_create_project: [role#assignee] or admin 
    define can_edit_project: [role#assignee] or admin 
    define can_delete_project: [role#assignee] or admin  # new permission
```

To grant the new permission to existing roles, create additional tuples:

```yaml
- user: role:acme-project-admin#assignee
  relation: can_delete_project
  object: organization:acme
```

You do not need to add these tuples when adding the new permission. End-users will add the new permission to their custom roles when they find it appropiate.

### Pros and Cons

**✅ Advantages:**
- Supports user-defined roles
- Flexible permission assignment
- No model changes needed for new role instances

**❌ Disadvantages:**
- More complex than static relations
- Requires additional tuples for role-permission mapping

---

## Approach 3: Role Bindings

The previous approach works well when custom roles are global for the organization. However, if you need roles that can be attached to different object instances with different members for each instance, you need role bindings.

### Example: Project-Specific Admin Roles

Let's say you want a "Project Admin" role where each project can have different admins, but the role permissions remain consistent.

### Step 1: Define the Role Template

Define a `role` type where you list all the permissions that the role can have:

```dsl.openfga
model
  schema 1.1

type role
  relations
    define can_view_project: [user:*]
    define can_edit_project: [user:*]
```

Create a role template with permissions marked using `user:*`, as a flag to enable the permission for the role:

```yaml
- user: user:*
  relation: can_view_project
  object: role:project-admin  

- user: user:*
  relation: can_edit_project
  object: role:project-admin
```

### Step 2: Create Role Bindings

Add a `role_binding` type to bind users to the role:

```dsl.openfga
type role_binding
  relations
    define assignee: [user]
    define role: [role]

    define can_view_project: assignee and can_view_project from role
    define can_edit_project: assignee and can_edit_project from role
```

### Step 3: Connect to Your Objects

Define an `organization` type with an admin role, and a `project` type that links to an `organization` and a `role_binding`. 

```dsl.openfga
type organization 
  relations
    define admin: [user]

type project
  relations
    define organization: [organization]
    define role_binding: [role_binding]
    
    # combine role-based and static permissions
    define can_edit_project: can_edit_project from role_binding or admin from organization
    define can_view_project: can_view_project from role_binding or admin from organization
```

### Setting Up Role Bindings

1. **Create the role binding instance**:

```yaml
- user: user:anne
  relation: assignee
  object: role_binding:project-admin-openfga

- user: role:project-admin  
  relation: role
  object: role_binding:project-admin-openfga
```

2. **Link the role binding to the project**:

```yaml
- user: role_binding:project-admin-openfga
  relation: role_binding
  object: project:openfga
```
3. **Link the project to an organization**:

```yaml
- user: organization:acme
  relation: organization
  object: project:openfga
```
### Pros and Cons

**✅ Advantages:**
- Maximum flexibility for instance-specific roles
- Reusable role definitions across different objects
- Fine-grained control over role membership

**❌ Disadvantages:**
- Most complex approach to implement
- Requires careful planning of the role hierarchy
- More tuples needed for setup and maintenance

---

## Choosing the Right Approach

### Decision Tree

1. **Do you need user-defined roles?**
   - No → Use **Relations as Roles**
   - Yes → Continue to step 2

2. **Do roles need different members per object instance?**
   - No → Use **Simple Dynamic Roles**
   - Yes → Use **Role Bindings**

### Performance Considerations

- **Relations as Roles**: Fastest evaluation
- **Simple Dynamic Roles**: Moderate performance impact
- **Role Bindings**: Highest complexity, plan for performance testing

## Best Practices

1. **Start simple**: Begin with relations as roles and evolve as needed
2. **Hybrid approach**: Combine static relations for well-known roles with dynamic roles for custom ones
3. **Documentation**: Clearly document your role model for your team
4. **Testing**: Test authorization performance with realistic data volumes

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Check out these related resources for more information about adopting OpenFGA"
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: 'Custom Roles Step by Step',
      description: 'Follow a detailed walkthrough of implementing custom roles.',
      link: '../modeling/custom-roles',
    },
    {
      title: 'Multi-tenant RBAC Example',
      description: 'See a complete multi-tenant role-based access control implementation.',
      link: 'https://github.com/openfga/sample-stores/blob/main/stores/multitenant-rbac',
    },
    {
      title: 'Role Bindings Example',
      description: 'Explore a full role bindings implementation.',
      link: 'https://github.com/openfga/sample-stores/tree/main/stores/role-bindings',
    }
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

chore: renamed bindings to assignments

docs/content/best-practices/modeling-roles.mdx, after:

---
title: Modeling roles
slug: /best-practices/modeling-roles
description: Describe different ways you can model roles with FGA
sidebar_position: 1
---
import {
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  RelatedSection,
} from '@components/Docs';

# Modeling Roles

<ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> allows modeling roles in multiple ways. Roles are a common way to group users and assign permissions to those groups. They can be used to simplify permission management, especially in larger systems where users may have similar access needs.

In this guide, we'll explore common approaches to modeling roles with <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>.

## When to Use Each Approach

Before diving into implementation details, here's a quick guide to help you choose the right approach:

| Approach | Best For | Complexity | Flexibility |
|----------|----------|------------|-------------|
| **Relations as Roles** | Static, predefined roles | Low | Low |
| **Simple Dynamic Roles** | User-defined roles at org level | Medium | Medium |
| **Role Assignments** | Instance-specific role assignments | High | High |

## Approach 1: Roles as Relations

The simplest way to implement roles is to use directly assignable relations. They work well for roles that always exist and can be defined at development-time. Adding relations is very easy, and you do not need to add roles very frequently. If roles are static, this is always the preferred approach.

### Example: Organization Admin Role

In the model below we define an `admin` role at the organization level. Admins can edit billing details and create projects.

```dsl.openfga
model
  schema 1.1

type user

type organization
  relations
    define admin: [user]
    define can_create_project: admin
    define can_edit_billing_details: admin
```

### Adding Users to Roles

To add users to the admin role, create a tuple like:

```yaml
- user: user:anne
  relation: admin
  object: organization:acme
```

### Extending with Additional Roles

If later you need to add a `project_admin` role with permissions to view/edit projects, the model evolves to:

```dsl.openfga
model
  schema 1.1

type user

type organization
  relations
    define admin: [user]
    define project_admin: [user]  # new role

    # existing permissions
    define can_edit_billing_details: admin 
    define can_create_project: admin or project_admin

    # new permissions for project admins
    define can_edit_project: admin or project_admin
    define can_view_project: admin or project_admin
```

### Pros and Cons

**✅ Advantages:**
- Simple to implement and understand
- Fast evaluation performance
- Clear authorization policies
- No additional tuples needed when adding permissions

**❌ Disadvantages:**
- Roles must be predefined in the model
- Not suitable for user-defined roles

---

## Approach 2: Simple Dynamic Roles

Many applications require the flexibility for end-users to define their own custom roles, in addition to any pre-defined roles. This approach enables organizations to tailor permissions to their specific needs.

### Example: Custom Project Admin Role

With the following model, your application can support both static roles and user-defined roles:

```dsl.openfga
model
  schema 1.1

type user

type role
  relations
    define assignee: [user]

type organization
  relations
    define admin: [user]  # static role

    # permissions can be assigned to custom roles or static roles
    define can_create_project: [role#assignee] or admin 
    define can_edit_project: [role#assignee] or admin 
```

### Setting Up Custom Roles

1. **Define role permissions** by creating tuples that grant the role specific permissions:

```yaml
- user: role:acme-project-admin#assignee
  relation: can_create_project
  object: organization:acme

- user: role:acme-project-admin#assignee
  relation: can_edit_project
  object: organization:acme
```

2. **Assign users to the role**:

```yaml
- user: user:anne
  relation: assignee
  object: role:acme-project-admin
```

### Adding New Permissions

When you add new permissions to your model, existing roles don't automatically receive them:

```dsl.openfga
model
  schema 1.1

type user

type role
  relations
    define assignee: [user]

type organization
  relations
    define admin: [user]
    define can_create_project: [role#assignee] or admin 
    define can_edit_project: [role#assignee] or admin 
    define can_delete_project: [role#assignee] or admin  # new permission
```

To grant the new permission to existing roles, create additional tuples:

```yaml
- user: role:acme-project-admin#assignee
  relation: can_delete_project
  object: organization:acme
```

You do not need to add these tuples when adding the new permission. End-users will add the new permission to their custom roles when they find it appropiate.

### Pros and Cons

**✅ Advantages:**
- Supports user-defined roles
- Flexible permission assignment
- No model changes needed for new role instances

**❌ Disadvantages:**
- More complex than static relations
- Requires additional tuples for role-permission mapping

---

## Approach 3: Role Assignments

The previous approach works well when custom roles are global for the organization. However, if you need roles that can be attached to different object instances with different members for each instance, you need role assignments.

### Example: Project-Specific Admin Roles

Let's say you want a "Project Admin" role where each project can have different admins, but the role permissions remain consistent.

### Step 1: Define the Role Template

Define a `role` type where you list all the permissions that the role can have:

```dsl.openfga
model
  schema 1.1

type role
  relations
    define can_view_project: [user:*]
    define can_edit_project: [user:*]
```

Create a role template with permissions marked using `user:*`, as a flag to enable the permission for the role:

```yaml
- user: user:*
  relation: can_view_project
  object: role:project-admin  

- user: user:*
  relation: can_edit_project
  object: role:project-admin
```

### Step 2: Create Role Assignments

Add a `role_assignment` type to assign users to the role:

```dsl.openfga
type role_assignment
  relations
    define assignee: [user]
    define role: [role]

    define can_view_project: assignee and can_view_project from role
    define can_edit_project: assignee and can_edit_project from role
```

### Step 3: Connect to Your Objects

Define an `organization` type with an admin role, and a `project` type that links to an `organization` and a `role_assignment`. 

```dsl.openfga
type organization 
  relations
    define admin: [user]

type project
  relations
    define organization: [organization]
    define role_assignment: [role_assignment]
    
    # combine role-based and static permissions
    define can_edit_project: can_edit_project from role_assignment or admin from organization
    define can_view_project: can_view_project from role_assignment or admin from organization
```

### Setting Up Role Assignments

1. **Create the role assignment instance**:

```yaml
- user: user:anne
  relation: assignee
  object: role_assignment:project-admin-openfga

- user: role:project-admin  
  relation: role
  object: role_assignment:project-admin-openfga
```

2. **Link the role assignment to the project**:

```yaml
- user: role_assignment:project-admin-openfga
  relation: role_assignment
  object: project:openfga
```
3. **Link the project to an organization**:

```yaml
- user: organization:acme
  relation: organization
  object: project:openfga
```
### Pros and Cons

**✅ Advantages:**
- Maximum flexibility for instance-specific roles
- Reusable role definitions across different objects
- Fine-grained control over role membership

**❌ Disadvantages:**
- Most complex approach to implement
- Requires careful planning of the role hierarchy
- More tuples needed for setup and maintenance

---

## Choosing the Right Approach

### Decision Tree

1. **Do you need user-defined roles?**
   - No → Use **Relations as Roles**
   - Yes → Continue to step 2

2. **Do roles need different members per object instance?**
   - No → Use **Simple Dynamic Roles**
   - Yes → Use **Role Assignments**

### Performance Considerations

- **Relations as Roles**: Fastest evaluation
- **Simple Dynamic Roles**: Moderate performance impact
- **Role Assignments**: Highest complexity, plan for performance testing

## Best Practices

1. **Start simple**: Begin with relations as roles and evolve as needed
2. **Hybrid approach**: Combine static relations for well-known roles with dynamic roles for custom ones
3. **Documentation**: Clearly document your role model for your team
4. **Testing**: Test authorization performance with realistic data volumes

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Check out these related resources for more information about adopting OpenFGA"
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: 'Custom Roles Step by Step',
      description: 'Follow a detailed walkthrough of implementing custom roles.',
      link: '../modeling/custom-roles',
    },
    {
      title: 'Multi-tenant RBAC Example',
      description: 'See a complete multi-tenant role-based access control implementation.',
      link: 'https://github.com/openfga/sample-stores/blob/main/stores/multitenant-rbac',
    },
    {
      title: 'Role Assignments Example',
      description: 'Explore a full role assignments implementation.',
      link: 'https://github.com/openfga/sample-stores/tree/main/stores/role-assignments',
    }
  ]}
/>
