docs/content/best-practices/source-of-truth.mdx, before:

---
title: Source of Truth
sidebar_position: 3
slug: /best-practices/source-of-truth
description: Deciding where to store the "source of truth" for authorization data
---

import {
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  RelatedSection,

} from '@components/Docs';

# When to use <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> as the 'source of truth' for authorization data

<ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> is inspired by [Google’s Zanzibar](https://research.google/pubs/zanzibar-googles-consistent-global-authorization-system/). In Google’s internal architecture, Zanzibar is used as an extremely efficient system for authorization checks, but it's never the source of truth for application data. The [Read endpoint](https://openfga.dev/docs/interacting/relationship-queries#read) is mostly used when you need to inspect the stored data, e.g. for troubleshooting consistency issues.

For developers using <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>, following Google's internal approach isn't always practical. In most cases, applications will use <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> as the source of truth for some data.

**When <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> is not the right source of truth:**

- User data and user groups: The source of truth for user profile and user group data is typically an identity provider like Entra, Okta or Auth0. 
- Entity hierarchies: Structures like project/tickets or folder/documents already live in application's databases. Repeatedly querying <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> just to navigate that hierarchy would be inefficient. Having this in the application's database would allow for better optimizations when searching within a folder (see: [search with permissions](../interacting/search-with-permissions.mdx)), as it would let the applications narrow down the scope of what it needs to check, and then call check in parallel instead of filtering through other methods.
- Data relevant for search and filtering: When performing searches, you need to combine data that's on your database and data that's in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>. Your application's database is the right place to do filtering/sorting/joins. The data required for performing those operations should live in application's databases.

**When OpenFGA is a good source of truth:**

- Fine-grained permissions: If an application allows users to assign permissions directly to resources (e.g., sharing a document), and you don't need to store that data in the application's database for other needs, you can store it only in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>.

- Role membership: If you are not using another system to manage groups or roles, storing role/group membership in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> is reasonable. Remember that <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> does not store resource metadata (like names or descriptions), so you'll still need a table in your application's database to store role/group names.

Commit message:

fix: minor fixes and summary

docs/content/best-practices/source-of-truth.mdx, after:

---
title: Source of Truth
sidebar_position: 3
slug: /best-practices/source-of-truth
description: Deciding where to store the "source of truth" for authorization data
---

import {
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  RelatedSection,
} from '@components/Docs';

# When to use <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> as the 'source of truth' for authorization data

<ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> is inspired by [Google's Zanzibar](https://research.google/pubs/zanzibar-googles-consistent-global-authorization-system/). In Google's internal architecture, Zanzibar is used as an extremely efficient system for authorization checks, but it's never the source of truth for application data.

For developers using <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>, following Google's internal approach isn't always practical. In most cases, applications will use <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> as the source of truth for some data.

## When <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> is not the right source of truth

- User data and user groups: The source of truth for user profile and user group data is typically an identity provider like Entra, Okta or Auth0. 
- Entity hierarchies: Structures like project/tickets or folder/documents already live in application's databases. Repeatedly querying <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> just to navigate that hierarchy would be inefficient. Having this in the application's database would allow for better optimizations when searching within a folder (see: [search with permissions](../interacting/search-with-permissions.mdx)), as it would let the applications narrow down the scope of what it needs to check, and then call check in parallel instead of filtering through other methods.
- Data relevant for search and filtering: When performing searches, you need to combine data that's on your database and data that's in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>. Your application's database is the right place to do filtering/sorting/joins. The data required for performing those operations should live in application's databases.

## When <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> is a good source of truth

- Fine-grained permissions: If an application allows users to assign permissions directly to resources (e.g., sharing a document), and you don't need to store that data in the application's database for other needs, you can store it only in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>.

- Role membership: If you are not using another system to manage groups or roles, storing role/group membership in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> is reasonable. Remember that <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> does not store resource metadata (like names or descriptions), so you'll still need a table in your application's database to store role/group names.

## Summary

In practice, most applications use a hybrid approach: the application database remains the source of truth for domain data (users, resources, hierarchies), while <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> serves as the source of truth for fine-grained permission assignments. When data needs to exist in both systems, ensure you have a reliable synchronization strategy in place.

## Related Sections

<ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> provides a [Read endpoint](../interacting/relationship-queries.mdx#read) that can be used to inspect stored relationship data, which is useful for troubleshooting consistency issues between your application database and <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>.

<RelatedSection
  description="For more information on related topics, see:"
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: 'Search with Permissions',
      description: 'How to efficiently combine database queries with authorization checks.',
      link: '../interacting/search-with-permissions',
    },
    {
      title: 'Data Consistency',
      description: 'Understanding consistency guarantees when reading and writing data.',
      link: '../interacting/consistency',
    },
  ]}
/>
