docs/content/modeling/advanced/overview.mdx, before:

---
id: overview
title: 'Advanced Use-Cases'
slug: /modeling/advanced
sidebar_position: 0
---

import { CardGrid, DocumentationNotice, IntroCard, ProductName, ProductNameFormat } from '@components/Docs';

<DocumentationNotice />

This section will present advanced use cases and patterns for authorization modeling with <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.LongForm}/>.

<IntroCard
  title="When to use"
  description="The content in this section is useful if you would like to follow an end-to-end tutorial on how to build an authorization model for a common use-case or pattern."
/>

## Use-cases

<CardGrid
  middle={[
    {
      title: 'Google Drive',
      description: 'How to create an authorization model for your system starting from the requirements.',
      to: 'advanced/gdrive',
    },
    {
      title: 'GitHub',
      description: 'How to create an authorization model for your system starting from the requirements.',
      to: 'advanced/github',
    },
    {
      title: 'IoT',
      description: 'How to create an authorization model for your system starting from the requirements.',
      to: 'advanced/iot',
    },
    {
      title: 'Slack',
      description: 'How to create an authorization model for your system starting from the requirements.',
      to: 'advanced/slack',
    },
  ]}
/>

## Patterns

<CardGrid
  middle={[
    {
      title: 'Entitlements',
      description: 'How to create an authorization model for your system starting from the requirements.',
      to: 'advanced/entitlements',
    },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

fix: add description for pages where the first line uses JS component (#327)
Allow correct description to be rendered for snippets

Close https://github.com/openfga/openfga.dev/issues/268

docs/content/modeling/advanced/overview.mdx, after:

---
id: overview
title: 'Advanced Use-Cases'
slug: /modeling/advanced
sidebar_position: 0
description: Advanced use cases and patterns for authorization modeling
---

import { CardGrid, DocumentationNotice, IntroCard, ProductName, ProductNameFormat } from '@components/Docs';

<DocumentationNotice />

This section will present advanced use cases and patterns for authorization modeling with <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.LongForm}/>.

<IntroCard
  title="When to use"
  description="The content in this section is useful if you would like to follow an end-to-end tutorial on how to build an authorization model for a common use-case or pattern."
/>

## Use-cases

<CardGrid
  middle={[
    {
      title: 'Google Drive',
      description: 'How to create an authorization model for your system starting from the requirements.',
      to: 'advanced/gdrive',
    },
    {
      title: 'GitHub',
      description: 'How to create an authorization model for your system starting from the requirements.',
      to: 'advanced/github',
    },
    {
      title: 'IoT',
      description: 'How to create an authorization model for your system starting from the requirements.',
      to: 'advanced/iot',
    },
    {
      title: 'Slack',
      description: 'How to create an authorization model for your system starting from the requirements.',
      to: 'advanced/slack',
    },
  ]}
/>

## Patterns

<CardGrid
  middle={[
    {
      title: 'Entitlements',
      description: 'How to create an authorization model for your system starting from the requirements.',
      to: 'advanced/entitlements',
    },
  ]}
/>
