docs/content/interacting/overview.mdx, before:

---
id: overview
title: 'Interacting with the API'
slug: /interacting
sidebar_position: 0
---

import { DocumentationNotice, IntroCard, CardGrid, ProductName, ProductNameFormat } from '@components/Docs';

<DocumentationNotice />

This section helps you integrate <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> with your system. To do this, you will learn how to programmatically write authorization related data to <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>.

<IntroCard
  title="When to use"
  description="This section is useful if you have defined an authorization model and want to understand how to write authorization data to {ProductName} to represent the state of your system."
/>

# Content

<CardGrid
  bottom={[
    {
      title: 'Manage User Access',
      description: "Write relationship tuples to manage a user's access to an object.",
      to: 'interacting/managing-user-access',
    },
    {
      title: 'Manage Group Access',
      description: 'Write relationship tuples to manage access to an object for all members of a group.',
      to: 'interacting/managing-group-access',
    },
    {
      title: 'Manage Group Membership',
      description: 'Write relationship tuples to manage the users that are members of a group.',
      to: 'interacting/managing-group-membership',
    },
    {
      title: 'Manage Relationships Between Object',
      description:
        'Write relationship tuples to manage how two objects are related. E.g. parent folder and child document.',
      to: 'interacting/managing-relationships-between-objects',
    },
    {
      title: 'Transactional Writes',
      description: 'Write multiple relationship tuples in a single request, so all writes either succeed or fail.',
      to: 'interacting/transactional-writes',
    },
    {
      title: 'Relationship Queries',
      description: 'An overview of how to use the Check, Read, Expand, and ListObject APIs.',
      to: 'interacting/relationship-queries',
    },
    {
      title: 'Search with Permissions',
      description: 'Implementing search with OpenFGA.',
      to: 'interacting/search-with-permissions',
    },
]}
/>

Commit message:

fix: add description for pages where the first line uses JS component
Allow correct description to be rendered for snippets

Close https://github.com/openfga/openfga.dev/issues/268

docs/content/interacting/overview.mdx, after:

---
id: overview
title: 'Interacting with the API'
slug: /interacting
sidebar_position: 0
description: Programmatically write authorization related data and interact with the API
---

import { DocumentationNotice, IntroCard, CardGrid, ProductName, ProductNameFormat } from '@components/Docs';

<DocumentationNotice />

This section helps you integrate <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> with your system. To do this, you will learn how to programmatically write authorization related data to <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>.

<IntroCard
  title="When to use"
  description="This section is useful if you have defined an authorization model and want to understand how to write authorization data to {ProductName} to represent the state of your system."
/>

# Content

<CardGrid
  bottom={[
    {
      title: 'Manage User Access',
      description: "Write relationship tuples to manage a user's access to an object.",
      to: 'interacting/managing-user-access',
    },
    {
      title: 'Manage Group Access',
      description: 'Write relationship tuples to manage access to an object for all members of a group.',
      to: 'interacting/managing-group-access',
    },
    {
      title: 'Manage Group Membership',
      description: 'Write relationship tuples to manage the users that are members of a group.',
      to: 'interacting/managing-group-membership',
    },
    {
      title: 'Manage Relationships Between Object',
      description:
        'Write relationship tuples to manage how two objects are related. E.g. parent folder and child document.',
      to: 'interacting/managing-relationships-between-objects',
    },
    {
      title: 'Transactional Writes',
      description: 'Write multiple relationship tuples in a single request, so all writes either succeed or fail.',
      to: 'interacting/transactional-writes',
    },
    {
      title: 'Relationship Queries',
      description: 'An overview of how to use the Check, Read, Expand, and ListObject APIs.',
      to: 'interacting/relationship-queries',
    },
    {
      title: 'Search with Permissions',
      description: 'Implementing search with OpenFGA.',
      to: 'interacting/search-with-permissions',
    },
]}
/>
