docs/content/interacting/relationship-queries.mdx, before:

---
title: "Relationship Queries: Check, Read, Expand, and ListObjects"
sidebar_position: 6
slug: /interacting/relationship-queries
description: An overview of how to use the Check, Read, Expand, and ListObject APIs.
---

import {
  AuthzModelSnippetViewer,
  CheckRequestViewer,
  DocumentationNotice,
  ExpandRequestViewer,
  ListObjectsRequestViewer,
  ReadRequestViewer,
  ProductConcept,
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  RelatedSection,
  RelationshipTuplesViewer,
} from '@components/Docs';

# Relationship Queries: Check, Read, Expand, and ListObjects

<DocumentationNotice />

In this guide you will learn the uses of and limitations for the Check, Read, Expand, and ListObjects API endpoints.

## Before You Start

In order to understand this guide correctly you must be familiar with some <ProductConcept /> and know how to develop the things that we will list below.

<details>
<summary>

Assume that you have the following <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-authorization-model" linkName="authorization model" />.<br />
You have a <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="type" /> called `document` that can have a `reader`
and `writer`. All writers are readers. `bob` has a `writer` relationship with `document:planning`.

</summary>

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          writer: {
            this: {},
          },
          reader: {
            union: {
              child: [
                {
                  this: {},
                },
                {
                  computedUserset: {
                    object: '',
                    relation: 'writer',
                  },
                },
              ],
            },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

<RelationshipTuplesViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      _description: 'Bob has writer relationship with planning document',
      user: 'bob',
      relation: 'writer',
      object: 'document:planning',
    },
  ]}
/>

<hr />

In addition, you will need to know the following:

### Direct Access

You need to know how to create an authorization model and create a relationship tuple to grant a user access to an object. [Learn more →](../modeling/direct-access.mdx)

### <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> Concepts

- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="Type" />: a class of objects that have similar characteristics
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="User" />: an entity in the system that can be related to an object
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relation" linkName="Relation" />: is a string defined in the type definition of an authorization model that defines the possibility of a relationship between objects of this type and other users in the system
- An <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="Object" />: represents an entity in the system. Users' relationships to it can be define through relationship tuples and the authorization model
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="Relationship Tuple" />: a grouping consisting of a user, a relation and an object stored in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>

</details>

## Check

### What Is It For?

The [Check API](/api/service#Relationship%20Queries/Check) is an API endpoint that returns whether the user has a certain relationship with an object. <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> will resolve all prerequisite relationships to establish whether a relationship exists.

### When To Use?

Check can be called if you need to establish whether a particular user has a specific relationship with a particular object.

For example, you can call check to determine whether `bob` has a `reader` relationship with `document:planning`.

<CheckRequestViewer user={'bob'} relation={'reader'} object={'document:planning'} allowed={true} />

The <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> API will return `true` because there is an implied relationship as

- every `writer` is also a `reader`
- `bob` is a `writer` for `document:planning`

### Caveats And When Not To Use It

Check is designed to answer the question "Does user:X have relationship Y with object:Z?". It is _not_ designed to answer the following questions:

- "Who has relationship Y with object:Z?"
- "What are the objects that userX has relationship Y with?"
- "Why does user:X have relationship Y with object:Z?"

## Read

### What Is It For?

The [Read API](/api/service#Relationship%20Tuples/Read) is an API endpoint that returns the relationship tuples that are stored in the system that satisfy a query.

### When To Use?

Read can be called if you need to get all the stored relationship tuples that relate:

1. [a particular user to any objects of a specific type with a particular relation](#1-a-particular-user-to-any-objects-of-a-specific-type-with-a-particular-relation)
2. [a particular user to any objects of a specific type with any relation](#2-a-particular-user-to-any-objects-of-a-specific-type-with-any-relation)
3. [a particular object to any user with a particular relation](#3-a-particular-object-to-any-user-with-a-particular-relation)

#### 1. A Particular User To Any Objects Of A Specific Type With A Particular Relation

For example, to query all the stored relationship tuples `bob` has a `writer` relationship with, one can ask

<ReadRequestViewer
  user={'bob'}
  relation={'writer'}
  object={'document:'}
  tuples={[
    {
      user: 'bob',
      relation: 'writer',
      object: 'document:planning',
    },
  ]}
/>

#### 2. A Particular User To Any Objects Of A Specific Type With Any Relation

For example, to query all the stored relationship tuples in which `bob` is related to objects of type `document` as any relation, one can issue the following call:

<ReadRequestViewer
  user={'bob'}
  object={'document:'}
  tuples={[
    {
      user: 'bob',
      relation: 'writer',
      object: 'document:planning',
    },
  ]}
/>

#### 3. A Particular Object To Any User With A Particular Relation

For example, to query all the stored relationship tuples in which any user is related to `document:planning` as a `writer`, one can issue the following call:

<ReadRequestViewer
  relation={'writer'}
  object={'document:planning'}
  tuples={[
    {
      user: 'bob',
      relation: 'writer',
      object: 'document:planning',
    },
  ]}
/>

### Caveats And When Not To Use It

The Read API will only return all the stored relationships that match the query specification.
It does not expand or traverse the graph by taking the authorization model into account.

For example, if you specify that `writers` are `viewers` in the authorization model, the Read API will ignore that and it will return tuples where a user is a `viewer` if and only if the `(user_id, "viewer", object_type:object_id)` relationship tuple exists in the system.

In the following case, although all `writers` have reader `relationships` for document objects and `bob` is a `writer` for `document:planning`, if you query for all objects that `bob` has `reader` relationships, it will not return `document:planning`.

<ReadRequestViewer user={'bob'} relation={'reader'} object={'document:'} tuples={[]} />

:::info
Although bob is a writer to document:planning and every writer is also a reader, the Read API will return an empty list because there are no stored relationship tuples that relate bob to document:planning as reader.
:::

## Expand

### What Is It For?

The [Expand API](/api/service#/Relationship%20Queries/Expand) returns all users (including users and usersets) that have a specific relationship with an object.
The response is represented as a tree of users or usersets. To build the full graph of access, you would need to recursively call expand on the leaves returned from the previous expand call.

### When To Use?

Expand is used for debugging and to understand why a user has a particular relationship with a specific object.

For example, to understand why `bob` can have a `reader` relationship with `document:planning`, one could first call

<ExpandRequestViewer relation={'reader'} object={'document:planning'} />

The result of this call will be like

```json5
{
  "tree":{
    "root":{
      "type":"document:planning#reader",
        "leaf":{
          "computed":{
            "userset":"document:planning#writer"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The returned tree will contain `writer`, for which we will call

<ExpandRequestViewer relation={'writer'} object={'document:planning'} />

The result of this call will be like

```json5
{
  "tree":{
    "root":{
      "type":"document:planning#writer",
        "leaf":{
          "users":{
            "users":[
              "bob"
            ]
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

From there, we will learn that

- those related to `document:planning` as `reader` are all those who are related to that document as `writer`
- `bob` is related to `document:planning` as `writer`


### Caveats And When Not To Use It

The Expand call is expensive and has high latency. As such, it is designed to be used for debugging and understanding why a user has a particular relationship with a specific object. It is not designed for checking whether a user has a particular relationship with a specific object. In that case the Check API call should be used instead.

## ListObjects

### What Is It For?

The [ListObjects API](/api/service#/Relationship%20Queries/ListObjects) is an API endpoint that returns the list all of 
the objects (of a particular type) that a user has a relationship with. 

It provides a solution to the [Search with Permissions (Option 3)](./search-with-permissions.mdx#option-3-build-a-list-of-ids-then-search) use case for access-aware filtering on smaller object collections.

### When To Use?

Use the ListObjects API to filter the objects that a user can see based on the relationships they have.

See [Search with Permissions](./search-with-permissions) for more guidance.

<ListObjectsRequestViewer objectType="document" relation="reader" user="bob" contextualTuples={[{object: "document:otherdoc", relation: "reader", "user": "bob"}]} />

### Caveats And When Not To Use It

The ListObjects API should be used when the number of objects of a certain type the user could have access to is low (~ 1000), and the percentage of the total objects that the user can have access to is also low. See [Search with Permissions](./search-with-permissions) for more guidance.

The behavior of the ListObjects API is dependent upon the `listObjectsDeadline` and `listObjectsMaxResults` configuration values (see [Configuring the Server](../getting-started/setup-openfga#configuring-the-server))  provided to the OpenFGA server at startup. These
configurations are used to protect the server from long-lived and large responses, respectively. If you provide a deadline of 1s then the server will accumulate all of the object ids the
user has the relationship with for up to 1s and then respond with the results it was able to gather in that time. If you provide a limit on the maximum results then the server will accumulate at most
that many object ids before responding.

## Summary

|             | Check                                                         | Read                                                   | Expand                                                  | ListObjects                                                                        |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Purpose     | Check if user has particular relationship with certain object | Return all stored relationship tuples that match query | Expand the specific relationship on a particular object | List all objects of a particular type that a user has a specific relationship with |            |
| When to use | Validate if user X can perform Y on object Z                  | List stored relationships in system                    | Understand why user X can perform Y on object Z         | Filter the objects a user has access to                                            |

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Check out this additional content for more information on how to query relationships."
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: 'Check API Reference',
      description: 'Official reference guide for the Check API',
      link: '/api/service#Relationship%20Queries/Check',
    },
    {
      title: 'Read API Reference',
      description: 'Official reference guide for the Read API',
      link: '/api/service#Relationship%20Tuples/Read',
    },
    {
      title: 'Expand API Reference',
      description: 'Official reference guide for the Expand API',
      link: '/api/service#Relationship%20Queries/Expand',
    },
    {
      title: 'ListObjects API Reference',
      description: 'Official reference guide for the ListObjects API',
      link: '/api/service#Relationship%20Queries/ListObjects',      
    },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

include expected results in ListObjectsRequestViewer + include Streaming version

docs/content/interacting/relationship-queries.mdx, after:

---
title: "Relationship Queries: Check, Read, Expand, and ListObjects"
sidebar_position: 6
slug: /interacting/relationship-queries
description: An overview of how to use the Check, Read, Expand, and ListObject APIs.
---

import {
  AuthzModelSnippetViewer,
  CheckRequestViewer,
  DocumentationNotice,
  ExpandRequestViewer,
  ListObjectsRequestViewer,
  ReadRequestViewer,
  ProductConcept,
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  RelatedSection,
  RelationshipTuplesViewer,
} from '@components/Docs';

# Relationship Queries: Check, Read, Expand, and ListObjects

<DocumentationNotice />

In this guide you will learn the uses of and limitations for the Check, Read, Expand, and ListObjects API endpoints.

## Before You Start

In order to understand this guide correctly you must be familiar with some <ProductConcept /> and know how to develop the things that we will list below.

<details>
<summary>

Assume that you have the following <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-authorization-model" linkName="authorization model" />.<br />
You have a <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="type" /> called `document` that can have a `reader`
and `writer`. All writers are readers. `bob` has a `writer` relationship with `document:planning`.

</summary>

<AuthzModelSnippetViewer
  configuration={{
    type_definitions: [
      {
        type: 'document',
        relations: {
          writer: {
            this: {},
          },
          reader: {
            union: {
              child: [
                {
                  this: {},
                },
                {
                  computedUserset: {
                    object: '',
                    relation: 'writer',
                  },
                },
              ],
            },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  }}
/>

<RelationshipTuplesViewer
  relationshipTuples={[
    {
      _description: 'Bob has writer relationship with planning document',
      user: 'bob',
      relation: 'writer',
      object: 'document:planning',
    },
  ]}
/>

<hr />

In addition, you will need to know the following:

### Direct Access

You need to know how to create an authorization model and create a relationship tuple to grant a user access to an object. [Learn more →](../modeling/direct-access.mdx)

### <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> Concepts

- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="Type" />: a class of objects that have similar characteristics
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="User" />: an entity in the system that can be related to an object
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relation" linkName="Relation" />: is a string defined in the type definition of an authorization model that defines the possibility of a relationship between objects of this type and other users in the system
- An <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="Object" />: represents an entity in the system. Users' relationships to it can be define through relationship tuples and the authorization model
- A <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship-tuple" linkName="Relationship Tuple" />: a grouping consisting of a user, a relation and an object stored in <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/>

</details>

## Check

### What Is It For?

The [Check API](/api/service#Relationship%20Queries/Check) is an API endpoint that returns whether the user has a certain relationship with an object. <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> will resolve all prerequisite relationships to establish whether a relationship exists.

### When To Use?

Check can be called if you need to establish whether a particular user has a specific relationship with a particular object.

For example, you can call check to determine whether `bob` has a `reader` relationship with `document:planning`.

<CheckRequestViewer user={'bob'} relation={'reader'} object={'document:planning'} allowed={true} />

The <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> API will return `true` because there is an implied relationship as

- every `writer` is also a `reader`
- `bob` is a `writer` for `document:planning`

### Caveats And When Not To Use It

Check is designed to answer the question "Does user:X have relationship Y with object:Z?". It is _not_ designed to answer the following questions:

- "Who has relationship Y with object:Z?"
- "What are the objects that userX has relationship Y with?"
- "Why does user:X have relationship Y with object:Z?"

## Read

### What Is It For?

The [Read API](/api/service#Relationship%20Tuples/Read) is an API endpoint that returns the relationship tuples that are stored in the system that satisfy a query.

### When To Use?

Read can be called if you need to get all the stored relationship tuples that relate:

1. [a particular user to any objects of a specific type with a particular relation](#1-a-particular-user-to-any-objects-of-a-specific-type-with-a-particular-relation)
2. [a particular user to any objects of a specific type with any relation](#2-a-particular-user-to-any-objects-of-a-specific-type-with-any-relation)
3. [a particular object to any user with a particular relation](#3-a-particular-object-to-any-user-with-a-particular-relation)

#### 1. A Particular User To Any Objects Of A Specific Type With A Particular Relation

For example, to query all the stored relationship tuples `bob` has a `writer` relationship with, one can ask

<ReadRequestViewer
  user={'bob'}
  relation={'writer'}
  object={'document:'}
  tuples={[
    {
      user: 'bob',
      relation: 'writer',
      object: 'document:planning',
    },
  ]}
/>

#### 2. A Particular User To Any Objects Of A Specific Type With Any Relation

For example, to query all the stored relationship tuples in which `bob` is related to objects of type `document` as any relation, one can issue the following call:

<ReadRequestViewer
  user={'bob'}
  object={'document:'}
  tuples={[
    {
      user: 'bob',
      relation: 'writer',
      object: 'document:planning',
    },
  ]}
/>

#### 3. A Particular Object To Any User With A Particular Relation

For example, to query all the stored relationship tuples in which any user is related to `document:planning` as a `writer`, one can issue the following call:

<ReadRequestViewer
  relation={'writer'}
  object={'document:planning'}
  tuples={[
    {
      user: 'bob',
      relation: 'writer',
      object: 'document:planning',
    },
  ]}
/>

### Caveats And When Not To Use It

The Read API will only return all the stored relationships that match the query specification.
It does not expand or traverse the graph by taking the authorization model into account.

For example, if you specify that `writers` are `viewers` in the authorization model, the Read API will ignore that and it will return tuples where a user is a `viewer` if and only if the `(user_id, "viewer", object_type:object_id)` relationship tuple exists in the system.

In the following case, although all `writers` have reader `relationships` for document objects and `bob` is a `writer` for `document:planning`, if you query for all objects that `bob` has `reader` relationships, it will not return `document:planning`.

<ReadRequestViewer user={'bob'} relation={'reader'} object={'document:'} tuples={[]} />

:::info
Although bob is a writer to document:planning and every writer is also a reader, the Read API will return an empty list because there are no stored relationship tuples that relate bob to document:planning as reader.
:::

## Expand

### What Is It For?

The [Expand API](/api/service#/Relationship%20Queries/Expand) returns all users (including users and usersets) that have a specific relationship with an object.
The response is represented as a tree of users or usersets. To build the full graph of access, you would need to recursively call expand on the leaves returned from the previous expand call.

### When To Use?

Expand is used for debugging and to understand why a user has a particular relationship with a specific object.

For example, to understand why `bob` can have a `reader` relationship with `document:planning`, one could first call

<ExpandRequestViewer relation={'reader'} object={'document:planning'} />

The result of this call will be like

```json5
{
  "tree":{
    "root":{
      "type":"document:planning#reader",
        "leaf":{
          "computed":{
            "userset":"document:planning#writer"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The returned tree will contain `writer`, for which we will call

<ExpandRequestViewer relation={'writer'} object={'document:planning'} />

The result of this call will be like

```json5
{
  "tree":{
    "root":{
      "type":"document:planning#writer",
        "leaf":{
          "users":{
            "users":[
              "bob"
            ]
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

From there, we will learn that

- those related to `document:planning` as `reader` are all those who are related to that document as `writer`
- `bob` is related to `document:planning` as `writer`


### Caveats And When Not To Use It

The Expand call is expensive and has high latency. As such, it is designed to be used for debugging and understanding why a user has a particular relationship with a specific object. It is not designed for checking whether a user has a particular relationship with a specific object. In that case the Check API call should be used instead.

## ListObjects

### What Is It For?

The [ListObjects API](/api/service#/Relationship%20Queries/ListObjects) is an API endpoint that returns the list of all the object IDs of a particular type that a specific user has a specific relationship with.

It provides a solution to the [Search with Permissions (Option 3)](./search-with-permissions.mdx#option-3-build-a-list-of-ids-then-search) use case for access-aware filtering on small object collections.

:::caution Note
The current implementation of List Objects API is not optimized and can return incomplete results. [See below](./relationship-queries.mdx#caveats-and-when-not-to-use-it-3) for more details.
:::

### When To Use?

Use the ListObjects API to get what objects a user can see based on the relationships they have. See [Search with Permissions](./search-with-permissions) for more guidance.

<ListObjectsRequestViewer objectType="document" relation="reader" user="bob" contextualTuples={[{object: "document:otherdoc", relation: "reader", "user": "bob"}]} expectedResults={["otherdoc", "planning"]} />

There's two variations of the List Objects API.

- The [standard version](/api/service#Relationship%20Queries/ListObjects), which waits until all results are ready and sends them in one response.
- The [streaming version](/api/service#Relationship%20Queries/StreamedListObjects), which should be used if you want the individual results as soon as they become available.

### Caveats And When Not To Use It

The number of results returned by this API (both the standard and streaming version) may be incomplete depending on the `listObjectsDeadline` and `listObjectsMaxResults` configuration values (see [Configuring the Server](../getting-started/setup-openfga#configuring-the-server)) provided to the <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> server at startup. If you configure both values, the first one to be satisfied will terminate the request.

- If you set `listObjectsDeadline` to `1s`, the server will spend at most 1 second finding results.
- If you set `listObjectsMaxResults` to `10`, the server will return, at most, 10 object IDs.

Internally, the API runs concurrent checks against all the objects of the specified type. If the number of objects of that type is high, you should set a high value for `listObjectsDeadline`. If the number of objects of that type the user could have access to is high, you should set a high value for `listObjectsMaxResults`.

## Summary

|             | Check                                                         | Read                                                   | Expand                                                  | ListObjects                                                                        |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Purpose     | Check if user has particular relationship with certain object | Return all stored relationship tuples that match query | Expand the specific relationship on a particular object | List all objects of a particular type that a user has a specific relationship with |            |
| When to use | Validate if user X can perform Y on object Z                  | List stored relationships in system                    | Understand why user X can perform Y on object Z         | Filter the objects a user has access to                                            |

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Check out this additional content for more information on how to query relationships."
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: 'Check API Reference',
      description: 'Official reference guide for the Check API',
      link: '/api/service#Relationship%20Queries/Check',
    },
    {
      title: 'Read API Reference',
      description: 'Official reference guide for the Read API',
      link: '/api/service#Relationship%20Tuples/Read',
    },
    {
      title: 'Expand API Reference',
      description: 'Official reference guide for the Expand API',
      link: '/api/service#Relationship%20Queries/Expand',
    },
    {
      title: 'ListObjects API Reference',
      description: 'Official reference guide for the ListObjects API',
      link: '/api/service#Relationship%20Queries/ListObjects',      
    },
  ]}
/>
