docs/content/getting-started/overview.mdx, before:

---
id: overview
title: 'Getting Started'
slug: /getting-started
sidebar_position: 0
---

import { DocumentationNotice, IntroCard, CardGrid, ProductName } from '@components/Docs';

<DocumentationNotice />

The following will provide a step by step guide on how to get started with <ProductName />.

<IntroCard
  title="When to use"
  description="This section is useful if you understand the basic concepts of {ProductName}, and want to learn how to get started."
/>

# Content

<CardGrid
  middle={[
    {
      title: 'Setup OpenFGA',
      description: 'How to setup an OpenFGA server.',
      to: 'getting-started/setup-openfga/overview',
    },
    {
      title: 'Install SDK Client',
      description: 'Install the SDK for the language of your choice.',
      to: 'getting-started/install-sdk',
    },
    {
      title: 'Create a Store',
      description: 'Creating an OpenFGA entity that owns an authorization model and relationship tuples.',
      to: 'getting-started/create-store',
    },
    {
      title: 'Setup SDK Client for Store',
      description: 'Configure the SDK client for your store.',
      to: 'getting-started/setup-sdk-client',
    },
    {
      title: 'Configure Authorization Model',
      description: 'Programmatically configure authorization model for an {ProductName} store.',
      to: 'getting-started/configure-model',
    },
    {
      title: 'Update Relationship Tuples',
      description: 'Programmatically write authorization data to an {ProductName} store.',
      to: 'getting-started/update-tuples',
    },
    {
      title: 'Perform a Check',
      description: 'Programmatically perform an authorization check against an {ProductName} store.',
      to: 'getting-started/perform-check',
    },
    {
      title: 'Perform a List Objects Request',
      description: 'Programmatically perform a list objects request against an {ProductName} store.',
      to: 'getting-started/perform-list-objects',
    },
    {
      title: 'Integrate Within a Framework',
      description: 'Integrate authorization checks with a framework.',
      to: 'getting-started/framework',
    },
    {
      title: 'Production Best Practices',
      description: 'Best Practices of Running OpenFGA in Production Environment.',
      to: 'getting-started/running-in-production',
    },
    {
      title: 'Implementation Best Practices',
      description: 'Best Practices of Managing Tuples and Invoking OpenFGA APIs.',
      to: 'getting-started/tuples-api-best-practices',
    },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

feat: add a page describing immutable models

docs/content/getting-started/overview.mdx, after:

---
id: overview
title: 'Getting Started'
slug: /getting-started
sidebar_position: 0
---

import { DocumentationNotice, IntroCard, CardGrid, ProductName } from '@components/Docs';

<DocumentationNotice />

The following will provide a step by step guide on how to get started with <ProductName />.

<IntroCard
  title="When to use"
  description="This section is useful if you understand the basic concepts of {ProductName}, and want to learn how to get started."
/>

# Content

<CardGrid
  middle={[
    {
      title: 'Setup OpenFGA',
      description: 'How to setup an OpenFGA server.',
      to: 'getting-started/setup-openfga/overview',
    },
    {
      title: 'Install SDK Client',
      description: 'Install the SDK for the language of your choice.',
      to: 'getting-started/install-sdk',
    },
    {
      title: 'Create a Store',
      description: 'Creating an OpenFGA entity that owns an authorization model and relationship tuples.',
      to: 'getting-started/create-store',
    },
    {
      title: 'Setup SDK Client for Store',
      description: 'Configure the SDK client for your store.',
      to: 'getting-started/setup-sdk-client',
    },
    {
      title: 'Configure Authorization Model',
      description: 'Programmatically configure authorization model for an {ProductName} store.',
      to: 'getting-started/configure-model',
    },
    {
      title: 'Update Relationship Tuples',
      description: 'Programmatically write authorization data to an {ProductName} store.',
      to: 'getting-started/update-tuples',
    },
    {
      title: 'Perform a Check',
      description: 'Programmatically perform an authorization check against an {ProductName} store.',
      to: 'getting-started/perform-check',
    },
    {
      title: 'Perform a List Objects Request',
      description: 'Programmatically perform a list objects request against an {ProductName} store.',
      to: 'getting-started/perform-list-objects',
    },
    {
      title: 'Integrate Within a Framework',
      description: 'Integrate authorization checks with a framework.',
      to: 'getting-started/framework',
    },
    {
      title: 'Immutable Authorization Models',
      description: 'Learn how to take advantage of the immutable properties of Authorization Models in {ProductName}.',
      to: 'getting-started/immutable-models',
    },
    {
      title: 'Production Best Practices',
      description: 'Best Practices of Running OpenFGA in Production Environment.',
      to: 'getting-started/running-in-production',
    },
    {
      title: 'Implementation Best Practices',
      description: 'Best Practices of Managing Tuples and Invoking OpenFGA APIs.',
      to: 'getting-started/tuples-api-best-practices',
    },
  ]}
/>
