docs/content/getting-started/perform-list-objects.mdx, before:

---
title: Perform a List Objects call
sidebar_position: 4
slug: /getting-started/perform-list-objects
description: List all objects a user is authorized to perform a specified action for a given resource type
---

import {
  SupportedLanguage,
  languageLabelMap,
  ListObjectsRequestViewer,
  DocumentationNotice,
  ProductConcept,
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  RelatedSection,
  SdkSetupHeader,
  SdkSetupPrerequisite,
} from '@components/Docs';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Perform a list objects call

<DocumentationNotice />

This section describes how to perform a <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-list-objects-request" linkName="list objects" /> request. The List Objects API allows you to retrieve all <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="objects" /> of a specified <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="type" /> that a <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="user" /> has a given <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship" linkName="relationship" /> with. This can be used in scenarios like displaying all documents a user can read or listing resources a user can manage.

## Before you start

<Tabs groupId="languages">

<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [installed the SDK](./install-sdk.mdx).
3. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
4. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [installed the SDK](./install-sdk.mdx).
3. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
4. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [installed the SDK](./install-sdk.mdx).
3. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
4. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [installed the SDK](./install-sdk.mdx).
3. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
4. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.JAVA_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.JAVA_SDK)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [installed the SDK](./install-sdk.mdx).
3. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
4. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.CLI} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.CLI)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx).
3. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.CURL} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.CURL)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
3. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Step by step

Consider the following model which includes a `user` that can have a `reader` relationship with a `document`:

```dsl.openfga
model
  schema 1.1

type user

type document
  relations
    define reader: [user]

```

Assume that you want to list all objects of type document that  user `anne` has `reader` relationship with:

### 01. Configure the <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> API client

Before calling the check API, you will need to configure the API client.

<Tabs groupId="languages">
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.JAVA_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.JAVA_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.JAVA_SDK} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.CLI} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.CLI)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.CLI} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.CURL} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.CURL)}>

To obtain the [access token](https://auth0.com/docs/get-started/authentication-and-authorization-flow/call-your-api-using-the-client-credentials-flow):

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.CURL} />

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### 02. Calling list objects API

To return all documents that user `user:anne` has relationship `reader` with:

<ListObjectsRequestViewer
  authorizationModelId="01HVMMBCMGZNT3SED4Z17ECXCA"
  objectType="document"
  relation="reader"
  user="user:anne"
  expectedResults={['document:otherdoc', 'document:planning']}
  skipSetup={true}
  allowedLanguages={[
    SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK,
    SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK,
    SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK,
    SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK,
    SupportedLanguage.JAVA_SDK,
    SupportedLanguage.CLI,
    SupportedLanguage.CURL,
  ]}
/>

The result `document:otherdoc` and `document:planning` are the document objects that `user:anne` has `reader` relationship with.

:::caution Warning
The performance characteristics of the ListObjects endpoint vary drastically depending on the model complexity, number of tuples, and the relations it needs to evaluate. Relations with 'and' or 'but not' are more expensive to evaluate than relations with 'or'.
:::

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Take a look at the following section for more on how to perform authorization checks in your system"
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: '{ProductName} List Objects API',
      description: 'Read the List Objects API documentation and see how it works.',
      link: '/api/service#Relationship%20Queries/ListObjects',
    },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

docs: add StreamedListObjects documentation (#1135)
Co-authored-by: Raghd Hamzeh <raghd.hamzeh@openfga.dev>
Co-authored-by: Anurag Bandyopadhyay <angbpy@gmail.com>

docs/content/getting-started/perform-list-objects.mdx, after:

---
title: Perform a List Objects call
sidebar_position: 4
slug: /getting-started/perform-list-objects
description: List all objects a user is authorized to perform a specified action for a given resource type
---

import {
  SupportedLanguage,
  languageLabelMap,
  ListObjectsRequestViewer,
  StreamedListObjectsRequestViewer,
  DocumentationNotice,
  ProductConcept,
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  RelatedSection,
  SdkSetupHeader,
  SdkSetupPrerequisite,
} from '@components/Docs';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Perform a list objects call

<DocumentationNotice />

This section describes how to perform a <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-list-objects-request" linkName="list objects" /> request. The List Objects API allows you to retrieve all <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="objects" /> of a specified <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="type" /> that a <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="user" /> has a given <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship" linkName="relationship" /> with. This can be used in scenarios like displaying all documents a user can read or listing resources a user can manage.

## Before you start

<Tabs groupId="languages">

<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [installed the SDK](./install-sdk.mdx).
3. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
4. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [installed the SDK](./install-sdk.mdx).
3. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
4. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [installed the SDK](./install-sdk.mdx).
3. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
4. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [installed the SDK](./install-sdk.mdx).
3. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
4. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.JAVA_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.JAVA_SDK)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [installed the SDK](./install-sdk.mdx).
3. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
4. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.CLI} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.CLI)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx).
3. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.CURL} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.CURL)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
3. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Step by step

Consider the following model which includes a `user` that can have a `reader` relationship with a `document`:

```dsl.openfga
model
  schema 1.1

type user

type document
  relations
    define reader: [user]

```

Assume that you want to list all objects of type document that  user `anne` has `reader` relationship with:

### 01. Configure the <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> API client

Before calling the check API, you will need to configure the API client.

<Tabs groupId="languages">
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.JAVA_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.JAVA_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.JAVA_SDK} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.CLI} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.CLI)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.CLI} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.CURL} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.CURL)}>

To obtain the [access token](https://auth0.com/docs/get-started/authentication-and-authorization-flow/call-your-api-using-the-client-credentials-flow):

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.CURL} />

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### 02. Calling list objects API

To return all documents that user `user:anne` has relationship `reader` with:

<ListObjectsRequestViewer
  authorizationModelId="01HVMMBCMGZNT3SED4Z17ECXCA"
  objectType="document"
  relation="reader"
  user="user:anne"
  expectedResults={['document:otherdoc', 'document:planning']}
  skipSetup={true}
  allowedLanguages={[
    SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK,
    SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK,
    SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK,
    SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK,
    SupportedLanguage.JAVA_SDK,
    SupportedLanguage.CLI,
    SupportedLanguage.CURL,
  ]}
/>

The result `document:otherdoc` and `document:planning` are the document objects that `user:anne` has `reader` relationship with.

:::caution Warning
The performance characteristics of the ListObjects endpoint vary drastically depending on the model complexity, number of tuples, and the relations it needs to evaluate. Relations with 'and' or 'but not' are more expensive to evaluate than relations with 'or'.
:::

## Streamed List Objects

The Streamed ListObjects API is similar to the ListObjects API, with two key differences:

1. **Streaming Response**: Instead of collecting all objects before returning a response, it streams them to the client as they are collected.
2. **No Result Limit**: The number of results returned is only limited by the execution timeout specified in the flag `OPENFGA_LIST_OBJECTS_DEADLINE`, not by a fixed limit.

:::info
The streaming functionality is currently available in the **Node.js SDK**, **Go SDK**, **.NET SDK**, **Python SDK**, and **Java SDK**.
:::

### Using Streamed List Objects

<StreamedListObjectsRequestViewer
  user="user:anne"
  relation="reader"
  objectType="document"
  expectedResults={['document:otherdoc', 'document:planning']}
  skipSetup={true}
/>

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Take a look at the following section for more on how to perform authorization checks in your system"
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: '{ProductName} List Objects API',
      description: 'Read the List Objects API documentation and see how it works.',
      link: '/api/service#Relationship%20Queries/ListObjects',
    },
    {
      title: '{ProductName} Streamed List Objects API',
      description: 'Read the Streamed List Objects API documentation.',
      link: '/api/service#Relationship%20Queries/StreamedListObjects',
    },
  ]}
/>
