docs/content/getting-started/perform-list-users.mdx, before:

---
title: Perform a List Users call
sidebar_position: 4
slug: /getting-started/perform-list-users
description: List all users that have a certain relation with a particular object
---

import {
  SupportedLanguage,
  languageLabelMap,
  ListUsersRequestViewer,
  DocumentationNotice,
  ProductConcept,
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  RelatedSection,
  SdkSetupHeader,
  SdkSetupPrerequisite,
} from '@components/Docs';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Perform a List Users call

:::caution Warning
ListUsers is currently in an experimental release. Read [the announcement](https://openfga.dev/blog/list-users-announcement) for more information.
:::

<DocumentationNotice />

This section will illustrate how to perform a <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-list-users-request" linkName="list users" /> request to determine all the <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="users" /> of a given <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="type" /> that have a specified <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship" linkName="relationship" /> with a given <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="objects" />.

## Before You Start

<Tabs groupId="languages">

<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [installed the SDK](./install-sdk.mdx).
3. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
4. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [installed the SDK](./install-sdk.mdx).
3. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
4. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [installed the SDK](./install-sdk.mdx).
3. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
4. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem>

{/* <TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [installed the SDK](./install-sdk.mdx).
3. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
4. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem> */}

<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.JAVA_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.JAVA_SDK)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [installed the SDK](./install-sdk.mdx).
3. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
4. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.CLI} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.CLI)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx).
3. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.CURL} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.CURL)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
3. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Step By Step

Assume that you want to list all users of type `user` that have a `reader` relationship with `document:planning`:

### 01. Configure the <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> API Client

Before calling the ListUsers API, you will need to configure the API client.

<Tabs groupId="languages">
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK} />

</TabItem>
{/* <TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK} />

</TabItem> */}
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.JAVA_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.JAVA_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.JAVA_SDK} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.CLI} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.CLI)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.CLI} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.CURL} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.CURL)}>

To obtain the [access token](https://auth0.com/docs/get-started/authentication-and-authorization-flow/call-your-api-using-the-client-credentials-flow):

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.CURL} />

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### 02. Calling List Users API

To return all users of type `user` that have have the `reader` relationship with `document:planning`:

<ListUsersRequestViewer
  authorizationModelId="01HVMMBCMGZNT3SED4Z17ECXCA"
  objectType="document"
  objectId="planning"
  relation="reader"
  userFilterType="user"
  expectedResults={{
    users: [{ object: { type: "user:anne" } }, { object: { type: "user:beth" } }],
    excluded_users: []
  }}
  skipSetup={true}
  allowedLanguages={[
    SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK,
    SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK,
    SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK,
    SupportedLanguage.JAVA_SDK,
    SupportedLanguage.CLI,
    SupportedLanguage.CURL,
  ]}
/>

The result `user:anne` and `user:beth` are the `user` objects that have the `reader` relationship with `document:planning`.

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Take a look at the following section for more on how to perform list users in your system"
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: '{ProductName} List Users API',
      description: 'Read the List Users API documentation and see how it works.',
      link: '/api/service#Relationship%20Queries/ListUsers',
    },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

doc(list-users): add performance note

docs/content/getting-started/perform-list-users.mdx, after:

---
title: Perform a List Users call
sidebar_position: 4
slug: /getting-started/perform-list-users
description: List all users that have a certain relation with a particular object
---

import {
  SupportedLanguage,
  languageLabelMap,
  ListUsersRequestViewer,
  DocumentationNotice,
  ProductConcept,
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  RelatedSection,
  SdkSetupHeader,
  SdkSetupPrerequisite,
} from '@components/Docs';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Perform a List Users call

:::caution Warning
ListUsers is currently in an experimental release. Read [the announcement](https://openfga.dev/blog/list-users-announcement) for more information.
:::

<DocumentationNotice />

This section will illustrate how to perform a <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-list-users-request" linkName="list users" /> request to determine all the <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="users" /> of a given <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-type" linkName="type" /> that have a specified <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship" linkName="relationship" /> with a given <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="objects" />.

## Before You Start

<Tabs groupId="languages">

<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [installed the SDK](./install-sdk.mdx).
3. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
4. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [installed the SDK](./install-sdk.mdx).
3. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
4. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [installed the SDK](./install-sdk.mdx).
3. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
4. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem>

{/* <TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [installed the SDK](./install-sdk.mdx).
3. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
4. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem> */}

<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.JAVA_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.JAVA_SDK)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [installed the SDK](./install-sdk.mdx).
3. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
4. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.CLI} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.CLI)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx).
3. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.CURL} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.CURL)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
3. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_URL` as environment variables.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Step By Step

Assume that you want to list all users of type `user` that have a `reader` relationship with `document:planning`:

### 01. Configure the <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> API Client

Before calling the ListUsers API, you will need to configure the API client.

<Tabs groupId="languages">
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK} />

</TabItem>
{/* <TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK} />

</TabItem> */}
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.JAVA_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.JAVA_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.JAVA_SDK} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.CLI} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.CLI)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.CLI} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.CURL} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.CURL)}>

To obtain the [access token](https://auth0.com/docs/get-started/authentication-and-authorization-flow/call-your-api-using-the-client-credentials-flow):

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.CURL} />

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### 02. Calling List Users API

To return all users of type `user` that have have the `reader` relationship with `document:planning`:

<ListUsersRequestViewer
  authorizationModelId="01HVMMBCMGZNT3SED4Z17ECXCA"
  objectType="document"
  objectId="planning"
  relation="reader"
  userFilterType="user"
  expectedResults={{
    users: [{ object: { type: "user:anne" } }, { object: { type: "user:beth" } }],
    excluded_users: []
  }}
  skipSetup={true}
  allowedLanguages={[
    SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK,
    SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK,
    SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK,
    SupportedLanguage.JAVA_SDK,
    SupportedLanguage.CLI,
    SupportedLanguage.CURL,
  ]}
/>

The result `user:anne` and `user:beth` are the `user` objects that have the `reader` relationship with `document:planning`.

:::caution Warning
The performance characteristics of the ListUsers endpoint vary drastically depending on the model complexity, number of tuples, and the relations it needs to evaluate. Relations with 'and' or 'but not' are particularly expensive to evaluate.
:::

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Take a look at the following section for more on how to perform list users in your system"
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: '{ProductName} List Users API',
      description: 'Read the List Users API documentation and see how it works.',
      link: '/api/service#Relationship%20Queries/ListUsers',
    },
  ]}
/>
