docs/content/getting-started/perform-check.mdx, before:

---
title: Perform a Check
sidebar_position: 4
slug: /getting-started/perform-check
---

import {
  SupportedLanguage,
  languageLabelMap,
  CheckRequestViewer,
  DocumentationNotice,
  ProductConcept,
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  RelatedSection,
  SdkSetupHeader,
  SdkSetupPrerequisite,
} from '@components/Docs';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Perform a Check

<DocumentationNotice />

This section will illustrate how to perform a <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-check-request" linkName="check" /> request to determine whether a <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="user" /> has a certain <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship" linkName="relationship" /> with an <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="object" />.

## Before You Start

<Tabs groupId="languages">
{[SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK, SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK, SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK, SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK].map(lang =>
<TabItem value={lang} label={languageLabelMap.get(lang)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [installed the SDK](./install-sdk.mdx).
3. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
4. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_HOST` as environment variables.

</TabItem>
)}
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.CURL} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.CURL)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
3. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_HOST` as environment variables.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Step By Step

Assume that you want to check whether user `anne` has relationship `reader` with object `document:Z`

### 01. Configure the <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> API Client

Before calling the check API, you will need to configure the API client.

<Tabs groupId="languages">
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.CURL} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.CURL)}>

To obtain the [access token](https://auth0.com/docs/get-started/authentication-and-authorization-flow/call-your-api-using-the-client-credentials-flow):

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.CURL} />

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### 02. Calling Check API

To check whether user `user:anne` has relationship `reader` with object `document:Z`

<CheckRequestViewer
  user={'user:anne'}
  relation={'reader'}
  object={'document:Z'}
  allowed={true}
  skipSetup={true}
  allowedLanguages={[
    SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK,
    SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK,
    SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK,
    SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK,
    SupportedLanguage.CURL,
  ]}
/>

The result's `allowed` field will return `true` if the relationship exists and `false` if the relationship does not exist.

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Take a look at the following section for more on how to perform authorization checks in your system"
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: '{ProductName} Check API',
      description: 'Read the Check API documentation and see how it works.',
      link: '/api/service#Relationship%20Queries/Check',
    },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

fix: add description for pages where the first line uses JS component
Allow correct description to be rendered for snippets

Close https://github.com/openfga/openfga.dev/issues/268

docs/content/getting-started/perform-check.mdx, after:

---
title: Perform a Check
sidebar_position: 4
slug: /getting-started/perform-check
description: Perform a check request to determine whether a user has a certain relationship with an object.
---

import {
  SupportedLanguage,
  languageLabelMap,
  CheckRequestViewer,
  DocumentationNotice,
  ProductConcept,
  ProductName,
  ProductNameFormat,
  RelatedSection,
  SdkSetupHeader,
  SdkSetupPrerequisite,
} from '@components/Docs';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Perform a Check

<DocumentationNotice />

This section will illustrate how to perform a <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-check-request" linkName="check" /> request to determine whether a <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-user" linkName="user" /> has a certain <ProductConcept section="what-is-a-relationship" linkName="relationship" /> with an <ProductConcept section="what-is-an-object" linkName="object" />.

## Before You Start

<Tabs groupId="languages">
{[SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK, SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK, SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK, SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK].map(lang =>
<TabItem value={lang} label={languageLabelMap.get(lang)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [installed the SDK](./install-sdk.mdx).
3. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
4. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_HOST` as environment variables.

</TabItem>
)}
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.CURL} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.CURL)}>

1. <SdkSetupPrerequisite />
2. You have [configured the _authorization model_](./configure-model.mdx) and [updated the _relationship tuples_](./update-tuples.mdx).
3. You have loaded `FGA_STORE_ID` and `FGA_API_HOST` as environment variables.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Step By Step

Assume that you want to check whether user `anne` has relationship `reader` with object `document:Z`

### 01. Configure the <ProductName format={ProductNameFormat.ShortForm}/> API Client

Before calling the check API, you will need to configure the API client.

<Tabs groupId="languages">
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK)}>

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK} />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value={SupportedLanguage.CURL} label={languageLabelMap.get(SupportedLanguage.CURL)}>

To obtain the [access token](https://auth0.com/docs/get-started/authentication-and-authorization-flow/call-your-api-using-the-client-credentials-flow):

<SdkSetupHeader lang={SupportedLanguage.CURL} />

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### 02. Calling Check API

To check whether user `user:anne` has relationship `reader` with object `document:Z`

<CheckRequestViewer
  user={'user:anne'}
  relation={'reader'}
  object={'document:Z'}
  allowed={true}
  skipSetup={true}
  allowedLanguages={[
    SupportedLanguage.JS_SDK,
    SupportedLanguage.GO_SDK,
    SupportedLanguage.DOTNET_SDK,
    SupportedLanguage.PYTHON_SDK,
    SupportedLanguage.CURL,
  ]}
/>

The result's `allowed` field will return `true` if the relationship exists and `false` if the relationship does not exist.

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Take a look at the following section for more on how to perform authorization checks in your system"
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: '{ProductName} Check API',
      description: 'Read the Check API documentation and see how it works.',
      link: '/api/service#Relationship%20Queries/Check',
    },
  ]}
/>
