docs/content/getting-started/setup-openfga.mdx, before:

---
title: Setup OpenFGA Server
description: Setup the OpenFGA server
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /getting-started/setup-openfga
---

import {
  DocumentationNotice,
} from "@components/Docs";

# Setup OpenFGA Server

<DocumentationNotice />

This article explains how to start your own OpenFGA server using Docker, and how to configure it.

## Step By Step

If you want to run OpenFGA locally as a Docker container, follow these steps:

1. [Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) if Docker was not already installed.
2. Run `docker pull openfga/openfga` to get the latest docker image.
3. Run `docker run -p 8080:8080 openfga/openfga run`.

This will start an HTTP server and gRPC server with the default configuration options. Port 8080 will be used for HTTP API request.

## Configuring The Server

You may configure the OpenFGA server with a `config.yaml` file. The `config.yaml` can be specified in either:
- `/etc/openfga`
- `$HOME/.openfga`
- `.` (i.e., the current working directory).

The OpenFGA will server search for the configuration file in the above order.

Here is a sample configuration to run OpenFGA with postgres and using a preshared key for authentication:

```yaml
datastore:
  engine: postgres
  uri: postgres://user:password@localhost:5432/mydatabase
authn:
  method: preshared
  preshared:
    keys: ["key1", "key2"]
```

All possible configurations and their default values are defined in [config-schema.json](https://github.com/openfga/openfga/blob/main/.config-schema.json).

### Configuring Data Storage

You can choose between two storage options:

- In-memory storage. This option is not persistent, i.e. if you restart the server, the data will be lost.
- Postgres database. This option requires either a local Postgres installation, or a Docker container that runs Postgres. For an example of a Docker setup that includes a Postgres database, see [OpenFGA's Docker compose file](https://github.com/openfga/openfga/blob/main/docker-compose.yaml).

### Configuring Authentication

You can configure authentication in your OpenFGA server in two ways: no authentication (the default) or pre-shared key authentication.

If using **Pre-shared key authentication**, you will configure OpenFGA with a secret key and your application calling OpenFGA will have to set an `Authorization: Bearer <YOUR-KEY-HERE>` header. You can configure multiple keys.

:::caution Warning
If you are going to use this setup in production, you should enable TLS in your OpenFGA server.
:::

### Configuring Playground

The Playground facilitates rapid development by allowing you to visualize and model your application's authorization model(s) and manage relationship tuples with a locally running OpenFGA instace.

To enable playground with docker image, you will need to [configure the server](#configuring-the-server) and expose the playground port, which is default to port 3000.

Run `docker run -p 8080:8080 -p 3000:3000 openfga/openfga run`.

## Production Recommendations

If you have tried OpenFGA locally, decided it works as expected, and now want to deploy it to production, we recommend the following preparation:

- Update the configuration as follows:
  - Configure authentication on the server as explained above.
  - Enable TLS on the server.
  - Enable production logging by changing the `log.format` in the [config.yaml](#configuring-the-server) configuration file to `json`.
- Add a rate limiter interceptor (for example, [in the server configuration](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/openfga/openfga/server#Config)) that protects your OpenFGA server against bursts in traffic.
- Add a logger interceptor (for example, [in the server configuration](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/openfga/openfga/server#Config)) that sends logs to your logging platform of choice.

Commit message:

fix: change to have playground enable by default

docs/content/getting-started/setup-openfga.mdx, after:

---
title: Setup OpenFGA Server
description: Setup the OpenFGA server
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /getting-started/setup-openfga
---

import {
  DocumentationNotice,
} from "@components/Docs";

# Setup OpenFGA Server

<DocumentationNotice />

This article explains how to start your own OpenFGA server using Docker, and how to configure it.

## Step By Step

If you want to run OpenFGA locally as a Docker container, follow these steps:

1. [Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) if Docker was not already installed.
2. Run `docker pull openfga/openfga` to get the latest docker image.
3. Run `docker run -p 8080:8080 -p 3000:3000 openfga/openfga run`.

This will start an HTTP server and gRPC server with the default configuration options. Port 8080 will be used for HTTP API request and port 3000 will be used for hosting [playground](#disabling-playground).

## Configuring The Server

You may configure the OpenFGA server with a `config.yaml` file. The `config.yaml` can be specified in either:
- `/etc/openfga`
- `$HOME/.openfga`
- `.` (i.e., the current working directory).

The OpenFGA will server search for the configuration file in the above order.

Here is a sample configuration to run OpenFGA with postgres and using a preshared key for authentication:

```yaml
datastore:
  engine: postgres
  uri: postgres://user:password@localhost:5432/mydatabase
authn:
  method: preshared
  preshared:
    keys: ["key1", "key2"]
```

All possible configurations and their default values are defined in [config-schema.json](https://github.com/openfga/openfga/blob/main/.config-schema.json).

### Configuring Data Storage

You can choose between two storage options:

- In-memory storage. This option is not persistent, i.e. if you restart the server, the data will be lost.
- Postgres database. This option requires either a local Postgres installation, or a Docker container that runs Postgres. For an example of a Docker setup that includes a Postgres database, see [OpenFGA's Docker compose file](https://github.com/openfga/openfga/blob/main/docker-compose.yaml).

### Configuring Authentication

You can configure authentication in your OpenFGA server in two ways: no authentication (the default) or pre-shared key authentication.

If using **Pre-shared key authentication**, you will configure OpenFGA with a secret key and your application calling OpenFGA will have to set an `Authorization: Bearer <YOUR-KEY-HERE>` header. You can configure multiple keys.

:::caution Warning
If you are going to use this setup in production, you should enable TLS in your OpenFGA server.
:::

### Disabling Playground

The Playground facilitates rapid development by allowing you to visualize and model your application's authorization model(s) and manage relationship tuples with a locally running OpenFGA instance.

By default, the playground will be enabled for OpenFGA and port 3000 will be used as default.  To disable the playground, you will need to [configure the server](#configuring-the-server).

## Production Recommendations

If you have tried OpenFGA locally, decided it works as expected, and now want to deploy it to production, we recommend the following preparation:

- Update the configuration as follows:
  - Configure authentication on the server as explained above.
  - Enable TLS on the server.
  - Enable production logging by changing the `log.format` in the [config.yaml](#configuring-the-server) configuration file to `json`.
  - Disable playground.
- Add a rate limiter interceptor (for example, [in the server configuration](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/openfga/openfga/server#Config)) that protects your OpenFGA server against bursts in traffic.
- Add a logger interceptor (for example, [in the server configuration](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/openfga/openfga/server#Config)) that sends logs to your logging platform of choice.
